No! Stop sinking!
Don't make me put this down! Lets go of the library and sends a slice of sand at the sandbenders, which misses completely. She grabs the library again.
Regretfully. I'm sorry, Appa. She sniffles and closes her eyes.
Yes, there is. An entire village, hundreds of houses ... A strong breeze moves a layer of ash along the ground, brushing past their feet. all completely buried in ash.
Cut to Toph. It's like these people are born bad.
Camera pans to Toph, and cuts to a close-up of her face. Do you really think friendships can last more than one lifetime?
Twinkle Toes! That's got to be you!
Uh-oh, somebody catch him, he's going to-
Hopefully, you won't need to.
They know!
Load the Toph!
How are we doing?
You make it too easy!
Hey, Aang! We're going into town to find some dinner.
You didn't think you could get out of training just by coming to the Fire Nation, did you?
Notices Aang's damaged staff has washed ashore. Hey! What's ... oh, it's your glider.
Aang, I know swimming is fun and all, Cut to frontal view of Katara wringing water out of her hair, Aang swimming in the background, and Sokka fishing. Toph sits with her back to the camera in the foreground. but do you really think you should be exposing yourself like that? Frontal view. Cover up.
I know. Frontal view of Katara looking on as Toph sits in the background. It's your tattoos I'm worried about. What if someone sees you?
Guys, you're all gonna think I'm crazy, but it feels like a metal man is coming.
Well, that was random.
Raising a small portion of earth and using it as an arm rest. I don't think boomerang is an element. She removes a large ball of snot from her nose.
Guys, come on, Both look toward Toph, who is standing with her arms rested on two vertical earth columns. I think air and water are both wonderful elements. Katara's and Aang's expressions immediately change to proud ones. Cut to Toph's confidently smiling face as she points her hand toward a direction. But earth beats the pants off both of those sissy elements combined!
Cut to Toph. Can waterbending do this?
Cut to Toph, Katara, Sokka, and Aang from behind Zuko. You want a bending battle?! Cut to Toph. You got it.
Goooood morning, She puts both her hands on her hips. earthbending student!
Sorry, Snoozles, we'll do our earthbending as Whispers slightly, though with amusement in her voice. quietly as we can.
Puts a hand on Aang's chest. Let's start with ... Makes the gesture. move a rock.
The key to earthbending is your stance. You've got to be steady and strong. Rock is a stubborn element. If you're going to move it, you've got to be like a rock yourself.
Good. Now the actual motion of this one is pretty simple. Slams the rock against the canyon wall. Okay, you ready to give it a try?
No. That's the problem. You've got to stop thinking like an airbender. There's no different angle, no clever solution, no trickety-trick that's going to move that rock. You've got to face it head on. And when I say head on, I mean like this ... Jumps up and destroys the rock with her head.
Thanks, Katara. A gentle nudge. I'll try that. Moments later; yelling at the top of her lungs. Keep your knees high, Twinkle Toes!
Rock-like!
Rock-like!
This time we're going to try something a little different. Instead of moving a rock, you're going to stop a rock. Get in your horse stance! I'm going to roll that boulder down at you. If you have the attitude of an earthbender, you'll stay in your stance and stop the rock. Like this! Stretches out, still in stance.
I'm glad you said something. Actually there is a better way. Blindfolds Aang. This way, you'll actually have to sense the vibrations of the boulder to stop it. Thank you, Katara.
There's nothing to say, you blew it! You had a perfect stance, and a perfect form. But when it came right down to it, you didn't have the guts!
Yeah, you are sorry! If you're not tough enough to stop the rock, then you can at least give it the pleasure of smashing you instead of jumping out of the way like a jelly-boned wimp! Now, do you have what it takes to face that rock like an earthbender?
Yeah, whatever, go splash around until you feel better.
Aang, I found these nuts in your bag. I figured you wouldn't mind. And besides, even if you did, you're too much of a pushover to do anything about it.
You know, I'm really glad you feel that way. Because I also have this great new nutcracker.
It's not the only delicate instrument around here. Walks away, hitting the staff off rocks.
Just enjoying the show.
Pretty much.
Guess it just didn't occur to me. Throws a nut down and attempts to crack it with the staff.
Do it now!
Earthbend, Twinkle Toes. You just stood your ground against a crazy beast. And even more impressive, you stood your ground against me. You've got stuff.
Do it!
You did it! You're an earthbender.
Actually, you should probably let me do that. You're still a little new to this. You might accidentally crush him.
Happily. Yep, it worked wonders.
Points at The Boulder. Mockingly. Sounds to me like you're Goes into a mockingly scared position. scared, Boulder!
Whenever you're ready, The Pebble! Throws her head back and laughs.
Do people really want to see two little girls fighting out here?
Somebody's a little light on his feet! What's your fighting name: Cut to Aang. the Fancy Dancer? Aang grins sheepishly before Toph launches another pillar, which lifts him up. Where'd you go?
There you are!
Angrily. Whoever you are, just leave me alone.
What are you doing here, Twinkle Toes?!
How did you find me?
Not my problem. Now, Begins walking away. get out of here, or I'll call the guards.
Guards! Guards, help!
I ... thought I heard someone. I got scared.
Angrily. What's your problem?!
Relax. Look, I'm sorry about dinner. Let's call a truce, okay? Aang lets down his defensive position and the two head out to the yard. Toph walks along the side of a bridge. Even though I was born blind, I've never had a problem seeing. Jumps down. I see with earthbending. It's kind of like seeing with my feet. I feel the vibrations in the Earth, and I can see where everything is. The camera shows an aerial view. You, that tree ... Cut back to the ground. even those ants.
My parents don't understand. They've always treated me like I was helpless.
Yeah.
They're my parents. Where else am I supposed to go?
Yeah. You guys get to go wherever you want. No one telling you what to do, that's the life. It's just not my life. She detects something and touches the ground. We're being ambushed!
You think you're so tough? The camera zooms back to show her case and Aang's suspended from chains. She points somewhere below her. Why don't you come up here so I can snap that grin off your face? Cut to Xin Fu and The Boulder looking from below them on the floor of the arena.
Yes, I can.
Let him go! I beat you all before and I'll do it again!
Wait! Listens to their vibrations as they run toward her; turns head to Sokka. They're mine.
Dad, I know it's probably hard for you to see me this way. But the obedient little helpless blind girl that you think I am just isn't me. I love fighting. I love being an earthbender, and I'm really, really good at it. I know I've kept my life secret from you, but you were keeping me secret from the whole world. You were doing it to protect me, but I'm twelve years old and I've never had a real friend. So, now that you see who I really am, I hope it doesn't change the way you feel about me.
It has?
But, Dad!
I'm sorry too. Goodbye, Aang. She sheds a tear.
My dad changed his mind. He said I was free to travel the world. Katara and Sokka look at each other with unsure looks, but smile at Toph.
Good idea.
Speaking of which, I want to show you something.
Now we're even. Um, I'll take the belt back.
Ow! Cut to a wide shot Appa and Toph still laid out flat.
Bring it!
It's nice to get a chance to relax a little. It hardly ever happens.
What does it say?
Did you at least get some good meat?
Seriously? You guys didn't find any meat?
Hey! You guys picked a great campsite. This directs everyone's attention to her. She wriggles her toes in the thick mat of fur covering the ground around the bison. The grass is so soft.
Walking up from behind the two boys. Excuse me, does anyone have a razor? Because I've got some hairy pits!
Shrugging casually. Hey, don't worry about me. I'm good to go.
Breezily. Katara, I'm fine. I can carry my own weight. I don't need a fire, Pats bag. I've already collected my own food and look, Earthbends a rock tent over her. my tent's all set up.
Angered. I don't understand what's the problem here!
Casually. Yeah, you do seem pretty tired.
Well, good night.
There's something coming toward us!
Pressing hand to the ground. It feels like an avalanche, but also not an avalanche.
Leaping off Appa and lying on the ground, relieved. Ah, land sweet land! Rises and says cheerfully. See you guys in the morning!
Sarcastically. Really? You need me to help unload Sokka's funky-smelling sleeping bag?
Points a finger at Katara in irritation. Look! I didn't ask you to help unload my stuff! Turns and begins walking away. I'm carrying my own weight.
Enraged. What? Look here, sugar queen, Points finger at Katara. I gave up everything I had so that I could teach Aang earthbending. So don't you talk to me about being selfish!
Reopens her tent. That thing is back!
And how does it keep finding us?
Irritated; lying on bag. Oh, I didn't realize the baby still needed someone to tuck her in bed.
Who's Zuko?
I can feel it with my own two feet!
Determined. We can take them. Three on three.
Sheepishly. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't count you. You know, no bending and all.
Smugly. Okay, three on three plus Sokka.
Grumpily. I still think we could have taken them.
Slumped against the saddle, exhausted. Don't know ... too tired to think.
Frantically. What's going on?
Wakes up and slams the ground; screams furiously. What!?
Rises and faces Katara. No, I want to hear what Katara has to say. You think I have issues?
You're blaming me for this?
Hey, Shoves Aang out of the way. I never asked you for diddly-doo-dah. Points her thumb at herself. I carry my own weight. Besides, if there's anyone to blame, it's Sheddy over here!
Yeah, you want to know how they keep finding us? Grabs a handful of Appa's fur and lets the sheddings blow away in the wind. He's leaving a trail everywhere we go!
Stomps the ground, launching her pack into the air which she catches. I'm out of here.
Taking the tea from his hand. You seem a little too old.
Casually. I know what you're thinking ... I look like I can't handle being by myself.
You wouldn't even let me pour my own cup of tea!
People see me and think I'm weak. They want to take care of me, but I can take care of myself, by myself.
Laughs. So where is your nephew?
Is he lost?
So now you're following him.
Your nephew is very lucky, even if he doesn't know it. Gets up to leave. Thank you.
Happily. No, thank you for what you said. It helped me.
Rises to leave, but turns around briefly. Oh, and about your nephew, maybe you should tell him that you need him, too.
I thought you guys could use a little help.
Slightly annoyed, yet still jokingly. You been hitting the cactus juice again?
Sighs. Back in the city. Great.
Shot shows Sokka and Toph with Momo resting on her shoulder. It's just a bunch of walls and rules. You wait, you'll get sick of it in a couple of days.
It's called "being handled". Get used to it. Crosses her arms as everyone else glares sadly at Sokka.
Cut to Katara and Toph. Annoyed. We don't need a babysitter.
Frontal view. Slightly annoyed. I can feel you shaking.
Frontal view. How are we supposed to do that? Mimicking Joo Dee. "One doesn't just pop in on the Earth King!"
Frontal view. Or his armadillo bear.
This place ... is weird.
Lies down. Won't work.
Over Katara's shoulder view. Well, no offense to you simple country folk, but a real society crowd will spot you a mile away. You've got no manners! Takes a pastry from a bowl and eats it.
Burps. Over Katara's shoulder view. I learned proper society behavior and chose to leave it. Throws the half eaten pastry to the side. You never learned anything. And frankly, it's a little too late. She picks her nose and flicks the snot off her finger.
Katara might be able to pull it off, but you two would be lucky to pass as busboys!
Don't talk to the commoners, Katara. First rule of society.
Formally. I think this will do.
Irritated. Look, the Pangs and the Yum Soon Hans are waiting in there for us! I'm going to have to tell them who didn't let me in.
Trying to speak in a fancy voice. Another crab puff, please. Sokka leans in, eyes closed, with his tray to hand her a puff, unaware it's her.
Back to her normal voice. I'd know your little footsteps anywhere, Twinkle Toes.
Angry. He's your puppet!
So how did it go with the guru? Did you master the Avatar State?
There's no one else here.
Wait! Someone's at the door. Someone knocks on the door a second later. Actually, I know who it is. It's an old friend of mine. She walks over to the door and opens it, showing Iroh behind the door. Glad to see you're okay.
I met him in the woods once and knocked him down. Iroh smiles sheepishly and rubs the back of his head. Then he gave me some tea and some very good advice.
Well, what'd you know? There is an ancient city down there. But it's deep.
They're not the real Kyoshi Warriors!
See any Dai Li agents nearby?
Sarcastically. That is a nice trick.
So, what's your strategy for taking him down? Smiling and raises her hands to her eyes, her fingers wiggling outward in a mimicry of the Avatar State. Gonna get your glow on and Punches the air with a determined expression on her face. hit him with a little Avatar State action?
You know what I just heard? Holds up one hand and opens and closes it in a "gibber-gabber" expression. Blah, blah, spiritual mumbo jumbo blah, blah, something about space. Bored.
No way! Is that-
Angrily. You guys here for a rematch?
Smiling. Sweet.
Sarcastically. Yeah, congratulations, Sokka. You managed to invent a worse way of travel than flying. She holds her mouth, about to throw up.
I hope you kick some serious Fire Lord butt, Twinkle Toes.
If it's an underground secret bunker we're looking for, Points to herself. I'm just the girl to find it.
Placing her hand on the ground to feel vibrations. Yep. There are natural tunnels criss-crossing through the inside of the volcano.
Taking her hands and digging her fingers into the surface. There is something big, dense and made of metal deep in the heart of the volcano.
Pointing. This way! That one's a dead end!
Camera view changes to show the group walking past magma channels. Perish in burning hot magma.
The tunnel continues on the other side and It leads right to the bunker.
Walks over to the door and bangs the metal with her fist. Not a problem.
Appears on scene and clenches fist. And stick to the truth. I'll be able to tell if you're lying.
Cuts to Toph; short pause. Okay, you're good, I admit it. Traps Azula using earthbending. But you ought to consider telling the truth anyway!
Angrily. You're trying to keep us here and waste all our time!
Angrily. I'll roll your whole head!
It's not your fault, Sokka. Azula was ready for us. She had every move planned out.
The Fire Lord knew we were coming this time. We thought we had surprise on our side but we didn't. It just wasn't our day. What we need to do now is go and help our friends.
Defensively. I couldn't! The library was sinking! You guys were still inside and-
Turns to face him slightly. I can hardly feel any vibrations out here. The sandbenders snuck up on me and there wasn't time for –
No.
Katara, can I have some more water?
It does taste swampy.
Can I get some of that cactus?
What? What is what?
As far as I can feel, we're trapped in a giant bowl of sand pudding. I got nothin'.
Is there any more water?
Yesterday my mouth tasted like mud. Now it just tastes like sand. I never thought I'd miss the taste of mud so much.
Ow! Crud! I am so sick of not feeling where I'm going! Pointing toward the little rocklike shaped object she tripped over. And what idiot buried a boat in the middle of the desert‌?
Believe me, I kicked it hard enough to feel plenty of vibrations.
Ecstatic. A rock‌?! Yes! Let's go!
Ahhh ... Finally! Solid ground!
I don't think this is a normal cave. This was carved by something.
Close-up of her feet. There's something buzzing in here. Camera pans up to her. Something that's coming for us!
Sorry, I can't tell where they are in the air!
I recognize the son's voice. He's the one that stole Appa.
I never forget a voice.
You said to put a muzzle on him!
What about the Dragon of the West? He got in.
Yeah, thanks for the tour, but we still got the drill problem.
Maybe you'd like the Avatar's help now?
By hitting its pressure points!
Gesturing toward the drill. Once I whip up some cover, you're not going to be able to see. So, stay close to me.
Run!
Everyone into the hole!
Sarcastically. Oh no, what a nightmare!
No way am I going in that metal monster. I can't bend in there. I'll try to slow it down out here.
Straining as the drill continues to push her back. C'mon, Twinkle Toes, hurry up!
Approaching Katara. You guys need some help?
Here it comes!
Also walking away. You're crazy.
What makes you think we'll get it? I don't know if you've noticed, but things don't usually go that smoothly for our little gang.
I'm with Sweetness. I've seen enough of Ba Sing Se. Raises arms and opens eyes wide. And I can't even see!
Stands up. I don't trust the new positive Sokka. Points at Sokka in an accusing manner. Long Feng brainwashed you, didn't he!?
Can we please buy a new saddle? Riding bareback is terrifying! Buries face in Appa's back.
What was that?
How should I know? I'm still voting we leave Ba Sing Se.
He has a good point.
It's gone!
First time flying?
Yeah. Smiles. I hate it, too.
Long Feng intercepted our letters from home? Shakes her head. That's just sad.
I know what you mean. My mom's in the city. And from her letter it sounds like she finally understands me.
I'm really gonna miss you guys.
Enters. Hello? Mom? Anyone home? Walks to the center of the room. She senses something, but is quickly captured in a metal box. In a scared voice. Hey! Who do you think you're dealing with!?
Why are we sitting in the nosebleed section? My feet can't see a thing from up here!
Laughing. I think he's got you pegged!
Elated. Oh man! This writer's a genius!
Laughs and turns to face Aang. Oh, they nailed you, Twinkle Toes! Continues to laugh.
I don't know, you are more in touch with your feminine side than most guys.
Listen friends, it's obvious that the playwright did his research. I know it must hurt, but what you're seeing up there on that stage is the truth.
This is it, this must be where I come in!
Here it comes ...
Wait a minute, Picks at her ear with her pinky. I sound like a guy. A really buff guy.
Are you kidding me? I wouldn't have cast it any other way! Laughs as Katara looks away in dismay. At least it's not a flying bald lady! Camera pans to Aang, who turns toward the stage in annoyance.
To Zuko, after observing everyone's reactions. Geez, everyone's getting so upset about their characters. Even you seem more down than usual, and that's saying something!
Yeah, that's pretty great!
Sits down next to him. You have redeemed yourself to your uncle. You don't realize it, but you already have.
Because I once had a long conversation with the guy, and all he would talk about was you.
Yeah, and it was kind of annoying.
But it was also very sweet. All your uncle wanted was for you to find your own path, and see the light. Now you're here with us. He'd be proud. Punches Zuko on the shoulder.
That's how I show affection.
You said it.
Raises both hands to her head. Don't look at me, She folds her arms. I didn't touch your stuff.
Screen pans left to Toph. Ouch. She smiles sarcastically.
Cut to Toph, as Sokka sits near her, and rubs his head. You're gonna need to learn to draw your firebending from a different source. I recommend the original source. Eats the food from her bowl.
No. Zuko needs to go back to whatever the original source of firebending is.
I don't know. Places her bowl down as the shot cuts to a close-up of her face. For earthbending, the original benders were badgermoles.
Voice-over. One day, when I was little, I ran away and hid in a cave.
That's where I met them.
They were blind, just like me. The badgermole walks away as Toph attempts to crawls after it. So we understood each other. I was able to learn earthbending, Cut to an overhead shot of the badgermole, which moves its paws in a sweeping motion. not just as a martial art, but as an extension of my senses. Screen fades to an overhead shot of Toph mimicking the creature's actions. For them, the original earthbenders, The badgermole comes across a pile of rocks and earthbends them to the side. it wasn't just about fighting. It was their way of interacting with the world. She stops crawling and stands up. She earthbends a stone and smiles at her success.
Banging at the cell. Hey! Can you two old ladies quit your bickering for a second? Cut to inside the cell. I got to go to the bathroom!
Let me out of here so I can kick both your butts!
Struggling. Come on, metal. Budge! She punches a hole in the metal and shakes her hand in pain. Wooo! Toph, you rule.
From behind them. It's not! It's the real deal!
Jumps on top of the box. I am the greatest earthbender in the world! Don't you two dunderheads ever forget it! Stomps on the box and exits using earth surfing.
Cut to the Toph, Katara, and Aang standing in front of Sokka, who is reconnoitering. Sarcastically. Yeah, we wouldn't want a bird to hear us chatting up there and turn us in.
Cut to Toph, who is sitting down with her legs slightly folded. Plus, they have real food out there. Does anyone want to sit in the dirt and eat cave hoppers?
Hm ... I should probably wear shoes. But then I won't be able to see as well. Sits down. Sorry, shoes! Pulls on the shoe, launching the sole at Sokka's face, leaving a red mark. Finally, a stylish shoe for the blind earthbender.
Yeah, we got our outfits. What do you need to go to school for?
Ha ha! Sokka glares at her.
Feeling their approach. They're coming! Everyone stop bending.
To Katara. Who knew Twinkle Toes could dance?
To Aang. Way to go, dancy pants. I think you really did help those kids, you taught them to be free.
Mockingly. It looks just like him to me!
But you disappeared at the Earth King's party.
Yeah, let's break some rules! Takes out a side of the house with earthbending.
Peevishly. Why? Because you think I can't put up posters on my own?! Angrily takes the paintbrush of glue from Sokka and throws glue on the wall. She slams a poster on it, but it is backward. Awkward pause. It's upside-down, isn't it? I'll just go with Sokka.
Walks up to Jet and feels the wall he is pinned to. He's not lying.
I can feel his breathing and heartbeat. When people lie, there's a physical reaction. He's telling the truth.
He was here! She shows them a clump of Appa's fur.
After Jet walks away. Was this guy your boyfriend or something?
Smiles. I can tell you're lying ... Katara runs away from her, embarrassed.
We're finally leaving Ba Sing Se. Spreads her arms outward in celebration. Worst ... city ... ever!
Feeling the ground between Jet and Smellerbee. This doesn't make any sense. They're both telling the truth.
Try to think of something from your past that triggers your emotions.
There's a tunnel right there by the shore.
Whispering to Sokka. He's lying ...
Puts her hand on the ground. A lot, actually. There's hundreds of little ...
We did make plans. We're all picking mini-vacations.
In disbelief. You spent years walking through the desert to find some guy's library?
Sarcastically. Hmm, sounds like good times.
Waving her hand to gain the others attention. Uh, hey, what about me? When do I get to pick?
Hmph! Slams her drink on the table and folds her arms. Cut to a shot of Zei.
Groans in frustration. Does this place even exist?
Eyes widen in surprise before narrowing. Shouldn't you have mentioned that before? Collapses on the saddle, putting her feet over the side.
Pointing over the side of the saddle with excitement. There it is! Everybody on Appa looks to where Toph is pointing, but they can only see sand dunes. Aang, Katara, and Sokka glare at Toph in annoyance for tricking them. Cut back to the shot of Toph. That's what it will sound like when one of you spots it. Waves her hand in front of her face with a blank grin to remind them of the fact that she is blind. She quickly goes back to clutching the saddle.
Cut a small part of the library which Toph puts her hand on. Actually, that won't be necessary. The inside seems to be completely intact. Aerial shot. And it's huge.
I say you guys go ahead without me.
I've held books before. And I gotta tell you, they don't exactly do it for me.
Let me know if they have something you can listen to.
Awkwardly. What's up?
To Appa. So ... you like ... flying? Appa purrs deeply and scratches his ear. Of course, I'm more comfortable on the ground where I can see. Well, I don't see the way you do. I feel the vibrations in the ground with my feet. Closer shot of the two. Toph picks up a handful of sand and lets it fall. But this sand is so loose and shifty, it makes everything look fuzzy. Appa makes a rumbling groan with a further shot. Not that there's anything wrong with fuzzy. Appa grunts.
I already told you, I don't wanna snuggle. Appa stands up and hurries away from the library. Toph looks at the sinking library. Library sinking. Running up to the library. Library sinking! Punches both fists into the library to stop it from sinking. Her feet slip in the sand, so she pauses to solidify it. Hi-yah! Struggles to stop it from sinking again.
What is it now?
Struggling. Who's there?
Don't make me put this down.
No! Stop sinking! Fires three more slices of sand. No! Grabs the library. I'm sorry, Appa. Closes her eyes as the camera pans to show the sand-sailers dragging Appa away.
How did you pick this place?
With chibi face in a speech bubble that appears above her; angrily. Go to sleep already! Clenches her teeth.
Relax! It's still two days before the invasion!
Why? Is it poisoned?
All right! What you need is a good old-fashioned back pounding to relieve your stress.
Sorry. I forgot you had baby skin. Aang grabs onto the edge of the pillars and gets up. Well, there's one other thing we can try. She stomps the ground, sending a distant boar-q-pine to her. She catches it and holds it out to Aang with a wide grin. Acupuncture!
And you're acting downright weird.
Hey! It's real! We spent hours working on it.
You want me to do it? Sokka nudges her back.
You're the man, Twinkle Toes!
Tastes mud on her mouth, and spits. Pah! Plegh! Aang airbends again, blowing the rest of the mud back into the river and messing up their hair.
Countering. Too bad your skills aren't on the hook.
I don't feel anything. Where is the village?
Covering Sokka's mouth with her hand. Hey, loud mouths! Maybe we should be a little quieter when we talk about  Quietly. "taking out the Fire Lord."
Sarcastically. Finagle away, oh schedule master.
Well I'm not waking up early.
Forget it!
Wow, Sokka, I didn't realize you cared so much.
He must have gotten sick from being in the polluted water.
Is it just me, or does this place seem different?
Pushes Sokka away. We need more food. Slams the money on the counter. Our friend is still sick and we can't leave until he's better.
Approaching and kneeling down with the others. What's going on?
Pops out from behind the little boy's mother and uses a lower voice. Maybe we can clean the river!
What are you doing?
Water Tribe slumber parties must stink.
Gasping. Wait! Guys, did you hear that? Aang, Katara, and Sokka clutch each other tightly, too stiff to move, with Toph standing alertly. I hear people under the mountain. And they're screaming.
Cuts to shot of the campsite viewed through the ominous-looking tree branches. No, I'm serious. I hear something.
It just ... stopped.
Maybe it's treasure!
Ooh! Hand it over!
Annoyed; Katara appears from behind her, peering nervously over her shoulder. This isn't as easy as it looks!
I thought they were ocean kumquats.
Maybe the Moon Spirit just turned mean.
Where does Old Man Ding live?
Oh no! Sokka and Aang assume defensive positions. I did hear people screaming under the mountain. The missing villagers must still be there!
Feels the ground with her hand. I can hear them. They're this way!
This is the place.
Grabs Sokka's hand. That's why you have me. Let's go!
I'll get these people out of here. You go!
Angrily. How could you do this to me? You betrayed me!
Good job, Twinkle Toes. Visualize, then attack.
What's the matter? Can't handle a little dirt, Madame Fussy-Britches?
Hungry for a mud pie? Kicks mud in Katara's face.
While Katara cleans up, Earthbends the mud off of herself and runs toward Aang and Sokka. let's go have some fun!
I gotta say, I like the idea of not talking to you. Sokka glares at her.
Stops walking. We can get more money. They both look back at her. Right there. Points to an area beneath them. Aang and Sokka move back to look where she is pointing.
This is where you seeing people are at a disadvantage. Everyone guesses wrong because the dealer moves the rock at the last minute. But I can feel it with my earthbending. As she says this, the scam artist continues to move the shells around as the gambler tries to focus on the shell with the rock, and right before stopping, the scam artist quickly and inconspicuously earthbends the rock from underneath one of the shells into his sleeve.
How can I possibly play? Waves her hand in front of her face. I'm blind.
Curiously. More interesting? How?
Grabs Sokka's sword. I'll do it for forty silver pieces. Sokka stares at them with his mouth wide open.
I won! She grabs the bag of money, and Sokka grabs his sword as they run off.
Starts to bite her apple, but stops to defend herself. Hey! I only cheated because he was cheating! Smiles. I cheated a cheater. Closes her eyes in confidence. What's wrong with that?
Why? Because it's fun? And you hate fun?
Could you for once stop being such a sourpuss and just lighten up? Tosses some money to Katara.
Yeah! Maybe! Maybe then you'd see Sokka grabs the money off the ground. how great we have it! I mean, look at us! Leans back on the rock behind her and crosses her arms behind her head. We're traveling around the world! Making easy money! Having fun! With no parents to tell us what to do!
Whatever.
I do hate them.
Stands up; angrily. Look, I ran away to help Aang!
Angrily. I'll stop when I wanna stop and not when you tell me! Uses earthbending to launch the bag of money behind her into her hand and walks away angrily. Katara shakes her head angrily as Toph sits and creates an earth tent.
Well it sounds like a sheet of paper, but I guess you're referring to what's on the sheet of paper.
Happily. A wanted poster! That's so great! "The Runaway." I love my new nickname. Is there a picture of me? Does it look good?
Don't be such a worrywart like your sister. Stands up and walks up to Sokka. Think of it this way: Now you've got plenty of money to help with the invasion plan. Holds up a bag of money and jiggles it in front of him.
Takes some money out of the bag and hands the money to him. Here's a little extra, so you can get yourself a nice map of the Fire Nation. You know what? Gives the entire bag to him. Make it an atlas.
Of course you do. Grabs the wanted poster and tucks it into her outfit. And that's why this wanted poster is going to stay our little secret. Walks away.
Yes, we were. Puts her bag down.
No, I don't.
Yes. Really.
Annoyed. I don't know! I mean, seriously! What is with you people? I'm blind! Points at her eyes and pulls down her bottom eyelids to emphasize her words.
Angrily. Where did you get that!?
You went through my stuff! You had no right!
That's a lie! Points at her. You're lying, Katara!
Sarcastically. Oh really, Mom? Or what are you gonna do? Send me to my room?
Well you can't! Because you're not my mom, and you're not their mom! Extends her arm at Aang and Sokka, who are sitting on a ledge.
No, but you certainly act like it! You think it's your job to boss everyone around, but it's not! You're just a regular kid like the rest of us! So stop acting like you can tell me what to do! I can do whatever I want!
I can't be around you right now!
So lemme guess: You brought me out here to tell me that your sister's not as annoying as I make her out to be.
Yeah. I don't know how you could deal with it.
I don't understand.
I guess I never thought about that.
The truth is sometimes Katara does act motherly, but that's not always a bad thing. She's compassionate and kind, and she actually cares about me. Wipes away tears from her left eye. You know, the real me. That's more than my own mom. Katara, deeply touched by Toph's words, sinks slightly into the water. Toph punches Sokka in the arm. Don't ever tell her I said any of this!
Holds up her hand in a "stop" fashion. Katara, stop. You don't need to apologize. I was the one being stupid. These scams are out of control, and I'm done with them.
Also shocked. What? You wanna pull a scam?
Excited. You know I'm in! Now what's this idea of yours? They walk away and leave Aang and Sokka behind, who are now unconscious and foaming at the mouth.
Angrily. How could you do this to me? You betrayed me!
Hey! What kind of cell is this?
Wait! It's a trap!
Not for us, Katara! We're the bait! He wants Aang! Katara's eyes widen with realization.
But, this was your idea.
Katara, you are fun. If nothing else, you're at least fun to argue with.
It's okay. I was really mad when you said that because ... well because, maybe it's true. Starts to cry. I try not to think about it, but when I left, I probably really hurt them.
I don't know. I wish we had some earth or water. We need bendables.
I left it back at camp. Sits down. I was worried they would take it.
Confused. Um, Katara? Are you okay?
Still confused. Well, what are you doing?
Amazed. Katara! You're a genius! A sweaty, stinky genius!
Let's get out of here!
Good job, Sokka. Now let's get outta here before Combustion Man catches us.
Katara? I need your help.
Pulls out a sheet of paper. I need you to write some things down for me. I wanna send a letter to my parents.
You sure that's the best way to go?
Deadly route. Punches Sokka in the arm. Great pick, Sokka!
I'll take care of this. My name is Toph Beifong, and I'll need four tickets. Presents her passport.
It is your pleasure. As you can see, I am blind and these three imbeciles are my valets. Sweeps her arm behind her, presenting her friends to the hesitant clerk.
-is my seeing-eye lemur.
Thank you very much.
I can't believe you're still complaining about it.
What does it say?
Pretending to be Sokka. "Thanks for saving my life, Toph." Hey, no problem, Sokka.
Feels the ice but her sense of sight is restricted. Actually, I'm going to stay on my little island, where I can see! The serpent takes out half the island. Okay, I'm coming! Slowly crosses the ice.
It's hard to ignore.
Help! I can't swim!
Help!
Thinking it is Sokka. Oh Sokka, you saved me! Kisses Suki on the cheek.
Oh ... well ... Chuckles. Embarrassed. you can go ahead and let me drown now.
So, you want to go see the baby, or are you going to faint like an old lady again?
She sounds healthy.
Say hi to that big fuzzball for me. Punches Aang in the arm.
Close-up. Causally. Eh, you've seen nothing once, you've seen it a thousand times.
Yeah, the worst thing about being in disguise is that we don't get the hero worship anymore. I miss the love.
I can't read at all!
Side-view of group. I learned from badgermoles. They don't talk, but they're still good teachers.
I'm tapped out. I already picked my toes, twice.
The first time was for cleaning, but the second time's just for the Wiggles her toes. sweet picking sensation!
Frontal view of Aang with Toph behind. Picking her nose. Plus, it's so hot today.
I dunno. Real hot‌?
Lying down. You noodle-brains don't know what you're doing. I miss Sokka.
Excitedly. Sokka's coming!
You're back!
Nonchalantly. I don't know. They missed you or something. I didn't care. Turns away, blushing and smiling.
Taking the rock. Side-view. Sweet! Cut to a close-up of the space earth floating between Toph's hands. She shapes it into a swirl, a star, and a splatter shaped similar to the Nickelodeon logo. Check this out.
Pointing to the exit. Come on! We can get out through here!
I can clear that away and we can fly out through there!
Not bad, baldy, Aang jumps off the sculpture. but I've been working on my sandbending. Cracks her fingers. You're gonna love this.
Try and top that, Sokka.
Suki, we'll all understand if you break up with him over this.
And frankly, your earthbending could still use some work too. Aang grimaces.
Yeah, if we all fight the Fire Lord together, we got a shot at taking him down.
Yeah.
Uh ... what about me?
Excited. So I get to chuck flaming rocks at all of you?
Sweetness.
Mwah-ha-ha-ha!
I am not Toph. I am Melon Lord! Mwah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
I knew it! You did have a secret thing with Haru! She smiles while Sokka, Suki, and Zuko look at her strangely.
No, it's not. Where's Aang?
Come on, lazy bones, let's go.
I bet he ran away again.
Then what do you think happened to him, oh sleuthy one?
I'm going with Zuko! Sokka, Suki, and Katara stare at her. What?! Everyone else went on a life-changing field trip with Zuko. Now it's my turn.
And then when I was nine, I ran away again.
I know I shouldn't complain. My parents gave me everything I ever asked for, but they never gave me the one thing I really wanted, their love. You know what I mean?
This is the worst field trip ever. Sighs and continues walking.
Hey, wait a minute. Has anyone noticed that Momo is missing, too?
Yeah, if anyone's got experience hunting the Avatar ... it's you.
Stepping forward, grinning broadly. I don't know who this June lady is, but I like her.
Frontal view. We know he's gone. That's why we're trying to find him.
Sarcastically. Helpful. Real helpful.
Smiles. I think it's kind of sweet.
Surprised. Huh? She suddenly senses something and wakes up. Cut to outside her rock tent as it begins to low.
Confused. What's going on? Cut to closer view from behind the masters. We're surrounded by old people.
Camera zooms out to show Toph behind Zuko. Well, that's who we're looking for.
You mean the Fire Lord.
Side-view of Toph. Well, what if Aang doesn't come back?
Camera pans back and to the left to Toph. And that means when Aang does face the Fire Lord, we'll be right there if he needs us. Close-up of Iroh, who smiles.
Too bad the Fire Lord's about to use it to destroy the world.
Then we're taking off, too! Where's the closest airship?
That's how it's done!
Sarcastically. That's a great idea! Let the blind girl steer the giant airship!
That would make a lot more sense.
Sarcastically. And how do we do that, Captain Boomerang? Normal. I can't see outside of this floating hunk of metal.
Whoa. That's a lot of fire, isn't it.
Sokka, I think we've gotta ...
Got it! She moves Sokka out of the way, spits into her hands, and rubs them together. Toph grips and metalbends the rudder while grunting in effort, and the Imperial Firebenders inside the ship crash into the wall, and due to the action, the ship crashes into the others.
Pleased. You could stand to mention it more.
Aye, aye, Captain.
How did that happen? Did boomerang come back?
Surprised. Wow! Who taught you that?
Smiling. You have the craziest adventures when you disappear.
Mockingly. Oh, sorry. Didn't mean to offend you, Phoenix King of Getting His Butt Whooped.
Pointing at Suki before pointing to herself; gently. Leave the nicknames to us, honey.
Well I think you all look perfect! They laugh.
I'm ready.
You call it dirt, I call it a healthy coating of earth!
Do I have to?!
The Fancy Lady Day Spa? Sarcastically. Sounds like my kinda place.
Sure, Katara, whatever you say. As long as they don't touch my feet.
Well, that wasn't so bad. I'm not usually into that stuff but I actually feel ... girly.
Thanks.
Sarcastically. No, no, that was a good one. Like your poodle monkey. She laughs. You know what else is a good one? She earthbends the bridge, removing a circular part above which the three girls are standing, causing the girls to fall into the creek below. Cut to Katara's face from the hole.
It's okay. One of the good things about being blind, is I don't have to waste my time worrying about appearance. Cut to a close-up of Toph's face. I don't care what I look like. I'm not looking for anyone's approval. I know who I am. She stops walking, and she cries a bit.
Turning to Katara, smiling. I am?
I'd return the compliment, but I've no idea how you look like. Katara laughs. Thank you, Katara. She punches Katara's shoulder, her way of showing affection.
Hey, we're here! I can feel it!
Wow ... it's amazing!
Curiously. Who's ... oh, She folds her arms irritably. never mind. If it's important I'll find out.
What's up with him?
Cut to a close up of Toph as she turns serious. I think that'll have to wait.
You want to what now?
Appa The siblings turn toward her. does seem to like him.
That guy locked me and Katara in jail and tried to blow us all up!
Actually, he wasn't lying.
I'm just saying that, considering his messed-up family and how he was raised, he could have turned out a lot worse.
All I know is that while he was talking to us, he was sincere. Maybe you're all just letting your hurt feelings keep you from thinking clearly.
Angrily. Because Katara, you're all ignoring one crucial fact: Pokes Aang in the chest. Aang needs a firebending teacher! We can't think of a single person in the world to do the job! Now one shows up on a silver platter, and you won't even think about it? Stamps her feet on the ground to a point where the ground shakes slightly.
Ergh! I'm beginning to wonder who's really the blind one around here! Walks away.
It's me! Throws up an earth shield, but steps back into Zuko's fire blast. Ow! You burned my feet!
Get away from me! As Toph crawls away, she grabs the earth under her and throws it backward at Zuko.
Get off me, get off me! Brings up some earth which sends Zuko flying back.
My feet got burned!
I just told you, my feet got burned!
Well, I kind of went to see Zuko last night. Everyone is shocked.
I thought he could be helpful to us. Katara begins to try and heal her feet. And if I talked to him, maybe we could work something out.
Well, he did, and he didn't. It was sort of an accident.
Sighs. Yes.
Yeah, me too.
Maybe just invite him back here. Aang and Sokka go to pick her up. He's already offered himself up as a prisoner once.
Ahhh, that's the stuff. Now I know how the rest of you guys feel. Not being able to see with your feet stinks. Katara sits next to her putting a hand on her shoulder.
He's going to blast this whole place right off the cliff side!
Go ahead and let him join. Pounds her fist into her palm jokingly. It'll give me plenty of time to get back at him for burning my feet.
