Sitting up on the deck floor. Uncle? What are you looking at? Is there something out there?
Reading the scroll. You need to know the story of your great-grandfather's demise. It will reveal your own destiny. He closes the scroll, and stares down the hallway.
Wait, I need to ask you something. Azula stops walking. What do you remember about our great-grandfather's history?
But how did he die?
What does it mean?
Reading. The Fire Sages keep the secret history in the Dragonbone Catacombs.
Reading aloud. The final testimony of Fire Lord Sozin.
That can't be it! Where's the rest of it? He searches the scroll to find more information.
Angrily. You sent this, didn't you? I found the secret history, which by the way should be renamed history most people already know! The note said that I needed to know about my great-grandfather's death, but he was still alive in the end.
Confused. What are you talking about?
Shocked. Why are you telling me this?
Angrily, while walking away. What does it matter where they came from?
Lazily resting against a tree trunk. Do you like your new teapot?
There's no honor for me without the Avatar.
Turns away from his uncle. Then there is no hope at all.
Uncle ... Switch to a close-up of Iroh with Zuko on the background. I thought a lot about what you said.
It's helped me realize something. We no longer have anything to gain by traveling together. Iroh's brightened expression quickly disappears again. I need to find my own way.
Angrily. Where are you hiding him?
Shaking Kanna; annoyed. He'd be about this age, master of all elements?
Angrily. I know you're hiding him!
Shocked. You're the airbender? You're the Avatar?
I've spent years preparing for this encounter. Training, meditating. Angrily. You're just a child!
Boarding the ship up the walkway. Determined. Head a course for the Fire Nation. I'm going home.
This staff will make an excellent gift for my father. Inspects the staff further. I suppose you wouldn't know of fathers, being raised by monks. To his soldiers. Take the Avatar to the prison hold, Handing the staff to Iroh. and take this to my quarters.
Looks like I underestimated you.
Shocked. What is that?
Angrily. Shoot them down!
Holding back rage. That "kid", Uncle, just did this. Cuts to a shot of the damaged ship, the whole front covered in ice and snow. I won't underestimate him again. Yells his order to the soldiers and points at the piles of snow. Dig the ship out and follow them!
Slightly embarrassed. As soon as you're done with that.
In a brooding tone. Three years ago today, I was banished. I lost it all. Looks up. I want it back. I want the Avatar, I want my honor, my throne. I want my father not to think I'm worthless. Looks on regretfully.
We don't need any more useless things! You forget, we have to carry everything ourselves now!
Angrily. What are you doing here?
Angrily. Don't call me that!
Surprised. Father regrets? He ... wants me back?
Packing belongings. We're going home! After three long years, it's unbelievable!
Did you listen to Azula? Father's realized how important family is to him! Irritated. He cares about me!
Turns his back to Iroh. You don't know how my father feels about me. You don't know anything!
Turns to face Iroh. I think you are exactly what you seem! A lazy, mistrustful, shallow old man who's always been jealous of his brother!
Turns around, smiles and sets down pack. Uncle! You've changed your mind!
We're finally going home!
Wistfully. Home.
You lied to me! Cut to Azula, who appears confident.
I've got a lot on my mind. It's been so long, over three years since I was home. I wonder what's changed. I wonder how I've changed.
I haven't seen Dad yet. I haven't seen him in three years, since I was banished.
So, I didn't capture the Avatar.
No. There's no way he could have survived. They glare at each other.
Shocked. What did you hear?
Why'd you do it?
Why did you tell Father that I was the one who killed the Avatar?
It. Can't.
But why?
You're lying.
You have another motive for doing this, I just haven't figured out what it is.
Arrives with Iroh. There are no stowaways on my ship.
Shocked. He's paralyzed.
But how did you find him on my ship?
Annoyed. Out of my way! Pushing a man out of the way. Step aside, filth!
I need to talk to you!
Your beast trashed my ship. You have to pay me back!
Money isn't what I had in mind.
I need you to find someone. Cut to Katara's necklace.
It's not the girl I'm after, it's the bald monk she's traveling with.
If you find them, I'll consider the damage to my ship paid for.
We're looking for someone.
Annoyed. Why are we stopping?
We have no time for this!
Hey! Watch it!
To Sokka and Katara. Where is he? Where is the Avatar?
How stupid do you think I am?
What are we supposed to do now?
What's it doing? It's just going in a circle.
Uncle? I didn't see you get hit with the tongue.
Cut to closer view of Zuko and Mai. Angrily. Doing nothing is a waste of time. Rises from his seat next to Mai. We're being sent away on a forced vacation. Walks over and grips the railing of the boat. I feel like a child.
Frontal view. Distantly. That was a long time ago.
Whispering. It smells like old lady in here.
Picks up shell and turns to Mai. Here. Closer frontal view of both. This is for you. Offers it to her.
I saw it, and I thought it was pretty. Don't girls like stuff like this?
Angrily. Forget it! Throws the shell away.
Closer frontal view of the two. I thought, since it's so hot ... here. Offers an ice cream cone, which falls out and onto Mai's lap.
Why didn't you tell those guys who we were?
Side-view of Zuko and Mai walking. He thinks he's so great. To Mai. Well, what do you think of him?
You like him, don't you? Mai sighs and walks away.
I know.
So what?
Sure. Stands up and walks away.
Angered. Hey, watch it! That food was for my cranky girlfriend!
Close-up. Angrily. Stop talking to my girlfriend!
What's wrong with me?
Snapping back. Well, at least I feel something, as opposed to you. Frontal view from behind Mai. You have no passion for anything! You're just a big blah!
Close-up. I was just leaving.
Side-view. Those summers we spent here seem so long ago. So much has changed.
View of both from behind. Turning to Mai. Where's your new boyfriend? Side-view. Mai turns away. View from behind Mai as Zuko sits down next to her. Are you cold? Mai slaps his hand when he tries to place it on her shoulder.
Side-view; smiling. I'll make a fire. View from behind Zuko as the camera pans up to show the vacation house. There's plenty of stuff to burn in there.
Frontal view. What does it look like I'm doing?
The camera pans up to Zuko's face; angrily. You think I care?
You don't know me, so why don't you just mind your own business? Walks away.
Frontal view. No, you don't. Close-up. You're stuck in your little "Ty Lee world" where everything's great all the time.
Walks away. Frontal view of campsite. Imitating Ty Lee. "I'm so pretty. Look at me. I can walk on my hands. Whoo!" Does a handstand. Frontal view of Ty Lee, upset. Close-up of Zuko, as he falls to the ground. Frontal view of Ty Lee, Zuko's face in the foreground. Circus freak.
Camera pans right. Getting up. Yeah, you do not believe in anything.
Aerial view of campsite. Walking up to the campfire. I'm sorry, too. I wish you would be high-strung and crazy for once instead of keeping all your feeling bottled up inside. Frontal view. She just called your aura dingy. Are you gonna take that?
Side-view of campsite. Frontal view of Zuko. I like it when you express yourself. Approaching, attempting to put a hand on her shoulder.
Side-view of Mai. My life hasn't been that easy either, Mai.
Bad skin? Frontal view. Normal teenagers worry about bad skin. I don't have that luxury. Leaning forward. My father decided to teach me a permanent lesson on my face! Points to his scar.
Turning around. For so long I thought that if my dad accepted me, I'd be happy. I'm back home now, my dad talks to me. Ha! He even thinks I'm a hero. Close-up of Azula, who smiles. Everything should be perfect, right? Aerial view of campsite. I should be happy now, but I'm not. Turning back to the others. I'm angrier than ever and I don't know why!
Close-up. No one. I'm just angry.
Close-up. Everyone. I don't know. Becoming frustrated.
Close-up. No, no.
Close-up. No, no, n-no, no!
Frontal view from behind the girls. Losing it now; furiously. I'm angry at myself!
Close-up. Because I'm confused. Because I'm not sure I know the difference between right and wrong anymore.
Frontal view. I guess you wouldn't understand, would you, Azula? He puts an arm around Mai. Because you're just so perfect.
Camera zooms in quickly to Zuko. Turns to look at Chan. Party's over.
You guys call that bending?
He is shocked for a moment, but soon becomes very angry, steam blasting out from his nose. He reverts to his appearance in the original series, instead of the super deformed version. I am neither cute nor tiny!
Angry. I'll show you tiny!
Cut to Zuko and Iroh from below. Everyone knows fire is the best!
Standing on the dragon made of lava. Step back! I'll bring in the heat!
Uncle ... you were unconscious. Azula did this to you. It was a surprise attack.
Hands Iroh some tea. I hope I made it the way you like it. Iroh takes a sip from the cup and his eyes widen. He lets out a cry of disgust, but manages to mask it.
So Uncle, I've been thinking. It's only a matter of time before I run into Azula again. I'm going to need to know more advanced firebending if I want to stand a chance against her. I know what you're going to say: she's my sister and I should be trying to get along with her.
I see. That's why we're drinking tea, to calm the mind.
I'm ready to try it!
Why can't I do it? Instead of lightning it keeps exploding in my face ... like everything always does.
What turmoil?
But I don't feel any shame at all. I'm as proud as ever.
Well, my life has been nothing but humbling lately.
Why are you telling me these things?
All this four elements talk is sounding like Avatar stuff.
You can teach me to redirect lightning?
I think so.
Great, I'm ready to try it with real lightning!
I thought that was the point! You teaching me to protect myself from it!
Well, if you won't help me, I'll find my own lightning. Rides away.
You've always thrown everything you could at me! Well, I can take it, and now I can give it back! Yelling as loud as he can at the storm. Come on, strike me! You've never held back before!
What do they want?
Looking down. I've got nothing to report to Admiral Zhao. Now get off my ship and let us pass.
Off my ship!
I don't care what they do.
Turning back, desperation and fear on his face. How, Uncle? With Zhao's resources, it's just a matter of time before he captures the Avatar. Turns back out to sea and whispers. My honor, my throne, my country, I'm about to lose them all.
I'm going to bed. No disturbances.
Cut to a tray full of tea cups with Zuko's hand holding a kettle and filling up the empty cups. No one can make tea like Uncle Camera pans up to Zuko's face., but hopefully I learned a thing or two. Would you like to hear Uncle's favorite tea joke?
Okay. Serves tea to The Duke and Haru and stands up with his tray. Well, I can't remember how it starts, but the punch line The boys help themselves to the tea. is "Leaf me alone, I'm bushed!" No response. Well, it's funnier when Uncle tells it.
So, what's up? Appa wakes up and looks as they walk past him.
What do you mean? Who was captured?
I can't tell you.
Trust me. Knowing would just make you feel worse. Turns to leave, but is stopped by Sokka.
It's not good, Sokka.
My guess is, they were taken to the Boiling Rock.
The highest security prison in the Fire Nation. Sokka looks at him, horrified. It's on an island in the middle of a boiling lake. It's inescapable.
Why do you need to know? What are you planning?
It's in the middle of a volcano between here and the Fire Nation. You guys actually flew right past it on your way here.
Sarcastically. Yeah, I'm sure it does.
Not up to anything, huh?
I'm never happy.
You need to regain your honor? Believe me, I get it. I'm going with you.
How are you going to get there? On Appa? Last time I checked, prisons don't have bison daycares. Sokka stops climbing, sighs, and looks back at Zuko. We'll take my war balloon. They walk off to the war balloon.
Yeah ... fluffy. Sokka whistles. What?
No kidding.
If there's one thing my dad's good at, it's war. Blasts more fire into the tank.
Looks at Sokka, defensively. Hey, hold on. Not everyone in my family is like that.
Downcast. I meant my uncle. He was more of a father to me. And I really let him down.
It wasn't that hard.
Well, I did have a girlfriend. Mai.
Smiles. Yeah. Everyone in the Fire Nation thinks I'm a traitor. I couldn't drag her into it.
Shocked for a moment. Looks up at the sky briefly, before glancing back at Sokka. That's rough, buddy.
There it is! Sokka awakens to see it. There's plenty of steam to keep us covered. As long as we're quiet, we should be able to navigate through it without being caught.
Frantically blasting fire into the tank. We're going down! The balloon's not working anymore! Blasts fire up into the balloon.
Falls to the side as the balloon tips. So what are we supposed to do?
Looking at the destroyed war balloon. How are we gonna get off the island if the balloon won't work?
You knew this would happen and you wanted to come anyway?
Uncle always said I never thought things through. But this ... this is just crazy!
What are you doing?
I hope you know what you're doing. They both turn to look at the prison. There's no turning back now.
I hope these disguises work.
Uh, very cute, sir.
But what if there's an incident? If I'm not prepared, someone could strike me on the head.
Can the new guy ask you veterans a few questions about the prison?
No, that's not it. The Boiling Rock, it holds the Fire Nation's most dangerous criminals, right? The other guards nod. So what about war prisoners?
Hey there, fellow guard, how goes it?
Shhh! Listen, I asked around the lounge. There are no Water Tribe prisoners. Lifts up his visor. I'm afraid your father's not here.
Yeah, I'm sure.
I'm really sorry, Sokka.
Ah, Holds his chin in thought. what would Uncle say? Cut to a frog-view as he looks up at the sky. Sometimes, clouds have two sides, Walks over to the railing. a dark and light, and a silver lining in between. It's like a silver sandwich! Close-up of a disinterested Sokka; voice-over. So ... when life seems hard ... Sokka glances to the side. take a bite out of the silver sandwich!
That's the spirit! Folds his arms. I can't believe that worked. Looks down. I didn't even know what I was saying.
Shot from over the guard's shoulder. No, you can't go in there! Looks at the prison cell; unsure. The lights are out. Points at the door. The prisoner could sneak up on you.
Shocked. How did you know who I am?
Even more shocked. You're Mai's uncle? I never meant to hurt her.
Folds his arms. So what's in it for you? Why don't you just tell my father to come collect a reward?
We did?
Stops mopping for a second. Oh, sorry about that. Nice to see you again.
Yeah ...
Exchanges a worried glance with Suki. The cooler as a boat? Are you sure?
Yeah, you heard wrong.
There's nothing to get in on.
Hey, you watch who you're shoving! He pushes Chit Sang.
Raises his head slightly and releases a small breath of fire to warm himself up. Yes, I have ... completely. Reveals all the removed bolts and screws, which makes Sokka smile.
Someone's coming! Takes Sokka into the cooler and closes the door.
War prisoners. It could be your father.
Well, what should we do? Are we going ahead with the plan or are we waiting another night?
It's your call, Sokka.
Are you sure you wanna go? You're the one who said you wanted to redeem yourself. Redeem your honor. Rescuing your dad is your chance.
No, it's not. Look Sokka, you're going to fail a lot before things work out.
Sokka moves away. Even though you'll probably fail over and over and over again ...
Grabs Sokka's shoulder. You have to try every time. You can't quit because you're afraid you might fail.
I'm staying, too.
Is that him? Cut to Sokka.
A view of Zuko's eyes appears in the slit from inside the cell. I'm here.
Voice-over. What are you doing? Where are you taking me? He is thrown into a chair in an interrogation room. I didn't do anything wrong!
Shocked. Mai!
How did you know I was here?
But, how-
I didn't mean to -
Stop! This isn't about you. This is about the Fire Nation!
Stands up. Mai, I never wanted to hurt you. But I have to do this to save my country.
That's not how I see it.
Gives a slight chuckle; proudly. Believe me, she doesn't.
And how do we do that?
Groans. I thought you thought this through!
Maybe not everything, but this is kind of important! Rubs his forehead.
Back off! We've got the warden! The guards see the warden on Chit Sang's shoulder, bound and gagged, and clear the way. Let's go!
I'm making it so they can't stop us.
That's a problem. It's my sister and her friend.
Me too.
They're cutting the line! The gondola's about to go!
Shocked. It's Mai!
My sister was on that island.
What I mean is she must have come here somehow. Walks up to a large hill by the sea. There! Pan down to a large airship. That's our way out of here!
It kind of got destroyed.
Finally! He turns around to face another person in uniform, who sits at a small table. Uncle, do you realize what this means?!
Turning around again to face the light. It means my search is about to come to an end.
Gestures at the light while facing his uncle again. That light came from an incredibly powerful source! The light dwindles and disappears. It has to be him!
Furiously, still facing Iroh. I don't need any calming tea! I need to capture the Avatar! Helmsman, head a course for the light!
Because their honor didn't hinge on the Avatar's capture. Mine does. This coward's hundred years in hiding are over.
With suppressed anger, he walks toward his uncle and addresses him. Enough! I've been drilling this sequence all day. Teach me the next set! I'm more than ready!
The suppressed anger is very apparent in his voice. The sages tell us that the Avatar is the last airbender. Close-up of Iroh, who does not look pleased with the attitude of his nephew. He must be over a hundred years old by now. He's had a century to master the four elements! I'll need more than basic firebending to defeat him. Starts to yell at his uncle. You will teach me the advanced set!
The last airbender! Aang and Katara reach the ground again and Aang sets Katara down. They start to walk away. Quite agile for his old age. He turns and angrily yells to a soldier behind him. Wake my uncle! Tell him I found the Avatar. Zuko peeks through his telescope again to see that Katara and Aang are running now. Zuko follows the direction they are running in with his telescope and discovers that they must be headed for the village he spots. As well as his hiding place ...
Emerging from the bushes, now sporting short, black hair. I didn't find anything to eat! I can't live like this! I wasn't meant to be a fugitive. Raises fists in the air and yells at the sky. This is impossible! Looking over at Iroh. Uncle, what are you doing?
We need food, not tea. I'm going fishing. Walks away.
Shocked. You didn't ...
Cut back to Zuko who drops the branch out of shock. Ahh!
Grabbing branch of berries and hurling it into the bushes. We're not taking any more chances with these plants! We need to get help.
If the Earth Kingdom discovers us, they'll have us killed.
Nodding and walking away with Iroh. Earth Kingdom it is.
Nervously; rises from his seat as she moves his hand down so she could wash it. Yes, we're travelers.
Names? Of course we have names. Song turns to see Iroh scratching and glares at him, before slapping his hand away. I'm, uh ... Lee and this is my Uncle, uh ... Mushi?
Looking away. Sorry, but we need to be moving on.
Close-up of the prince. I haven't seen my father in many years.
Sets down dish. Yeah. Looks away in dismay.
Turns and bows. Thank you.
Bitterly. I know.
They're about to show us a little more kindness. Well?
Yes, I really do.
Determined. Back off, Azula! He's mine!
Slightly dazed. Uncle ...
Horrified. Aaaah!
Angrily. Ugggh! Looks at Team Avatar. Get away from us!
Blasts an arc of fire. Leave!
Bleakly. This city is a prison. I don't want to make a life here.
Annoyed. Ridiculous.
Iroh closely examines his cup. In an annoyed tone. Uncle, that's what all tea is.
Close-up of Jet. We've been working in a tea shop all day! View from the outside in to the window where Zuko lays on a bed. I'm sick of tea!
You want a show? I'll give you a show!
You're the one who needs help.
It sure is, Uncle.
What's taking so long?
Something's not right.
He quickly stands up. Azula!
No! I'm tired of running! It's time I faced Azula!
Yes! I challenge you!
Looks back at her. You don't know what you're talking about!
He turns around to face Katara. I'm sorry. Pauses. Katara is now sobbing. That's something we have in common.
It doesn't matter.
My face? I see. He touches his scar.
It's okay. I used to think this scar marked me. The mark of the banished prince, cursed to chase the Avatar forever. But lately, I've realized I'm free to determine my own destiny, even if I'll never be free of my mark.
What?
It's a scar, it can't be healed.
Uncle, I don't understand. What are you doing with the Avatar? Points to Aang.
Hurt. Why, Uncle?
Release him immediately.
I have changed.
I betrayed Uncle.
But I don't have the Avatar. What if Father doesn't restore my honor?
I'm sorry Mai.
I know I've made some bad choices, but today, I'm gonna set things right. He rises, picks up his sword, covers his head with the hood of his robe, turns his back to the camera and leaves.
To himself. I'm ready to face you.
I'm here to tell the truth.
First of all, in Ba Sing Se, it was Azula who took down the Avatar, not me.
Because the Avatar's not dead. He survived.
In fact, he's probably leading this invasion. He could be on his way here right now.
That's another thing. I'm not taking orders from you anymore.
Pulls out his swords. Think again. I am going to speak my mind, and you are going to listen.
For so long, all I wanted was for you to love me, to accept me. I thought it was my honor I wanted, but really, I was just trying to please you. You, my father, who banished me just for talking out of turn. Points a broadsword at his father. My father, who challenged me, a thirteen-year-old boy, to an Agni Kai. Cuts to shot of Ozai, looking angered. How could you possibly justify a duel with a child?
It was cruel! And it was wrong.
No, I've learned everything! And I've had to learn it on my own! Growing up, we were taught that the Fire Nation was the greatest civilization in history. And somehow, the War was our way of sharing our greatness with the rest of the world. What an amazing lie that was. The people of the world are terrified by the Fire Nation. They don't see our greatness. They hate us! And we deserve it! Camera view shows top profile of Zuko and Ozai through an overhead grate. We've created an era of fear in the world. And if we don't want the world to destroy itself Cuts to shot of Zuko., we need to replace it with an era of peace and kindness.
Yes. Smiles proudly. He has.
After I leave here today, I'm gonna free Uncle Iroh from his prison and I'm gonna beg for his forgiveness. Cuts to shot of Ozai. He's the one who's been a real father to me.
But I've come to an even more important decision. Closes eyes and momentarily pauses. I'm going to join the Avatar and I'm going to help him defeat you.
Because I know my own destiny. Taking you down is the Avatar's destiny. Puts his swords away. Goodbye.
What happened that night?
Grows teary-eyed. So she's alive?
Uncle! Zuko sees a big hole in Iroh's cell and sees Warden Poon on the ground; grabs a dazed Poon by the collar. Where is my uncle?
Maybe we should make camp.
Surprised. You know these guys?
Too bad you don't have any old friends that don't want to attack you.
No one here is going to help us. These people just look like filthy wanderers.
You brought us here to gamble on Pai Sho?
What are you old gasbags talking about?
I thought you said he would help!
Annoyed. Now that you played Pai Sho, are you going to do some flower arranging, or is someone in this club going to offer some real help‌?
What's going on? Is the club meeting over‌?
Ba Sing Se? ‌Why would we go to the Earth Kingdom capital‌?
Disgusted. I'm going to forget I saw that. Grabs ticket and walks away.
Thanks, but I don't think you want me in your gang.
Walking away. I said no.
Gritting in a whisper. What are you doing firebending your tea? For a wise, old man, that was a pretty stupid move!
I don't feel right. Gets dizzy and passes out.
So thirsty. Sits up, but Iroh makes him lie back down.
I'm not tired.
What's happening?
What's that mean? Coughs continuously and lies down.
I told you, Cut to Zuko sitting on a dry fountain and wiping his head with a cloth. my father hasn't come here since our family was actually happy. And that was a long time ago. It's the last place anyone would think to look for us.
Recalling a memory. Ugh! My mother used to take us to see them. They butchered Love Amongst the Dragons every year!
Removing his hood. Just sit next to me. What's the big deal?
Gestures toward the stage. They make me look totally stiff and humorless.
In protest; holding his arms out. How could you say that?
So far, this intermission is the best part of the play.
Did Jet just ... die?
I might as well have.
You don't get it, it's different for you. You get a muscly version of yourself, taking down ten bad guys at once, and making sassy remarks.
But for me, it takes all the mistakes I've made in my life, and shoves them back in my face. My uncle, he's always been on my side, even when things were bad. He was there for me, he taught me so much, and how do I repay him? With a knife in his back. It's my greatest regret, and I may never get to redeem myself.
How do you know?
Really?
Oh, sorry.
Ow! What was that for?
The scar's not on the wrong side! Covers his face with his hood.
That ... wasn't a good play.
I know you're nervous, but remember, firebending in it of itself is not something to fear.
Cut to Zuko from behind Aang. But if you don't respect it, He raises his voice, as the camera zooms to a close-up of his face. it'll chew you up and spit you out like an angry komodo rhino!
Now show me what you've got. Any amount of fire you can make.
Cut to an aerial shot of the both. Good idea. You might wanna take a couple steps back.
Takes a step back. What was that? That was the worst firebending I've ever seen!
Frustrated. Why is this happening?
Turning back. Yeah, could be.
Just breathe, and ... He delivers another blast with no improvement.
Very angry. Don't patronize me! You know what it's supposed to look like!
Raises his arms to his head, and throws them down back, and shouts in frustration, as Aang cringes. And stop calling me that!
Frustrated. Get out of here! He lashes his arm and points to a side.
Listen everybody, I've got some pretty bad news. I've lost my stuff. He looks below dejectedly.
I'm talking about my firebending. It's gone. He looks below again.
Camera zooms back to show everyone sitting around the campfire and Zuko standing. Well, it's not lost. It's just ... weaker for some reason.
With an idea. I bet it's because I changed sides.
Okay, cut it out! Sokka stops poking, as his sword slips from his hands and is thrown above, before falling on his head. Zuko rubs his nose. Look, even if you're right, I don't want to rely on hate and anger anymore. There has to be another way.
Well, this doesn't help me. The original firebenders were the dragons, and they're extinct.
Cut to Zuko's face, as he yells. Well, they aren't around anymore, okay?
But maybe there's another way. He walks toward a fountain. The first people to learn from the dragons were the ancient Sun Warriors.
Turning his head toward Aang. No, they died off thousands of years ago. But their civilization wasn't too far from where we are now. Cut to a shot of the two from the side, as Zuko turns his head toward the Avatar. Maybe we can learn something by poking around their ruins.
Cut to an aerial shot. More or less. Either I find a new way to firebend, Cut to a shot of the two from the side. Zuko turns his head toward Aang. or the Avatar has to find a new teacher. Aang looks concerned and worried at Zuko's statement.
We've been riding for hours. I don't know why, but I thought this thing would be a lot faster.
Whispering. I can't believe this. He lies down.
Even though these buildings are ancient, there's something eerily familiar about them. Cut to Aang and Zuko walking. I can tell the Fire Sages' temples are somehow descended from these.
Kneeling down to inspect the spikes. I can't believe it. He picks the tripwire up and examines it. This booby trap must be centuries old and it still works.
Dusting some dirt on his shirt. Where's that up-beat attitude you were talkin' about? He smiles, as Aang turns back. Cut to Zuko's point of view of the path as screen pans above to a building. Besides, people don't make traps unless they've got something worth protecting.
Cut to Zuko and Aang looking at the carving from the side. They look pretty angry to me.
Well, they had a funny way of showing it.
He opens his eyes. My great-grandfather Sozin happened.
He started the tradition of hunting dragons for glory. There were the ultimate firebenders. Cut to them walking from below the bridge, with the screen panning right as they walk. And if you could conquer one, your firebending talents would become legendary and you'd earn the honorary title, Dragon. They approach a path which has one dragon's statue on both sides, and stop walking. The last great dragon was conquered long before I was born, Cut to a close-up of one of the dragon's statue's eyes as Zuko places one of his palms on it. by my uncle.
He had a complicated past. Cut to Zuko's face. Family tradition, I guess. Let's just move on.
Wait. Cut to an overhead shot of Zuko, as he realizes something and takes a step behind, and looks at the position he stood at a moment before. Screen zooms in to show the light from the sunstone beaming on a circular carving on the ground. It's a celestial calendar. Cut to an aerial shot of Zuko and Aang standing in front of the column as screen pans to right to show the gates. Just like the Fire Sages have in their temples. Cut to a similar sunstone above the gates. I bet that sunstone opens the door, but only when sunlight hits at just the right angle. Screen pans below to show Aang in front of the gates. On the solstice.
Cut to Zuko. No, we can't. He unsheathes one of his swords. But we might be able to speed time up. Cut to the circle carved on the ground on which light from the sunstone is being beamed. He places his sword on it with an angle, causing it to reflect the light. Cut to Zuko reflecting the light from the column. Let's see if we can outsmart the sunstone.
Cut to Zuko, who is kneeling down and reflecting the light. Come on ...
Relax. They're just statues.
He pulls his hand back. What?
This better teach us some really good firebending.
He runs toward the sunstone. It's some kind of mystical gemstone.
Why not?
It feels almost alive.
Ugh, I can't pull free. It's like some kind of glue.
Me? I can't move either!
At least we have air. Maybe if we stay calm, we can figure a way out of this.
Cut to their heads sticking out from the grates. At least I made something happen. If it were up to you, we'd never have made it past the courtyard.
Who are you yelling to? Nobody's lived here for centuries.
Think about our place in the universe‌?
Cut to Aang and Zuko from the side. We didn't come here to take your sunstone. We came here to find the ancient origin of all firebending.
Standing up. My name is Zuko, Crown Prince of the Fire Nation. Looks down at the ground. O-or at least I used to be. Cut to Zuko's point of view to the Sun Warriors as screen pans right to show more of them. I know my people have distorted the ways of firebending, to be fueled by anger and rage. But now I want to learn the true way, Cut back to Aang and Zuko. the original way. When we came here, I never imagined Cut to an aerial shot that shows the Sun Warriors surrounding the two. the Sun Warrior's civilization was secretly alive. I am truly humbled to be in your presence. Cut back to the two, as they bow their heads. Please, teach us.
Surprised. I don't believe it.
Hurry up.
Your flame's Aang looks at Zuko. gonna go out Cut to Zuko from below. because it's too small. You're too timid, give it more juice.
Cut to Zuko. You can do it. I know you can. Cut to an unsure Aang. You're a talented kid.
No, we're seeing this through to the end. We're gonna meet these masters and find out Cut to an overhead shot of Aang. what's so great about them.
Cut to Zuko. Well, we're the Fire Prince and the Avatar. Unsheathes his swords slightly. I think we could take these guys in a fight, whoever they are. He smiles.
Bring 'em out!
Whispering. What do you want me to do‌?
Whispering. No, just make your own.
Cut to an aerial shot of the bridge. Get some from those warriors. Cut to the chief and the two Warriors beside him. Hurry! Cuts to shot of the Sun Warriors below; off-screen. Stop cheating off me!
Cut to Zuko and Aang standing. These are the masters.
Sshh. I never said that.
Turning his head toward Zuko. What‌? What about this situation makes you think they want us to dance‌?
Unwillingly. Fine.
Cut to Zuko's face, as he stares at the flames. I understand.
Cut to Zuko. Their fire was beautiful. I saw so many colors, colors I've never imagined.
Cut to Zuko. I can't believe there are still living dragons. My uncle Iroh said he faced the last dragon and killed it.
Surprised. Shot cuts to an aerial shot of the courtyard. He must have lied to protect them, so no one else would hunt them.
Yeah. It's like the Sun, He curls his hand into a fist. but inside of you. Do you guys realize this?
That's why my firebending was so weak before. Because for so many years, hunting you Turns toward Aang as screen zooms out to show Aang. was my drive ... it was my purpose. Aang turns toward Zuko as well. So when I joined you, I lost sight of my inner fire. But now, I have a new drive. Cut to Zuko's face as screen zooms in. I have to help you defeat my father and restore balance to the world.
It's not a dance. It's a firebending form.
Walks toward Sokka. It's a sacred form that happens to be thousands of years old!
Embarrassed. The Dancing Dragon.
What's that smell?
Sniffs. Actually, it smells delicious. I'd love a bowl, Uncle. Holds a bowl up.
Optimistically. It's a new day. We've got a new apartment, new furniture, and today's the grand opening of your new tea shop. Moves to a table and sits. Things are looking up, Uncle. Starts drinking the jook. Iroh's shocked expression changes to a smile.
Congratulations, Uncle.
You deserve it. The Jasmine Dragon will be the best tea shop in the city.
Now let's make these people some tea! Walks away to the back.
Uncle! I need two jasmine, one green, and one lychee!
What is it, Uncle?
I'm going in for a visit. You're going to stand guard here, and no one is going to know about this. Zuko releases the guard, enters Iroh's cell, and approaches him. Uncle, it's me. Iroh, sitting on the floor, turns away from Zuko with a scowl on his face.
You brought this on yourself you know. We could have returned together. You could have been a hero! Iroh shifts but does not look at him. You have no right to judge me, Uncle. I did what I had to do in Ba Sing Se, and you're a fool for not joining me. Iroh continues ignoring him. You're not going to say anything? Kicks up a small stool and destroys it with firebending. You're a crazy old man! You're crazy! And if you weren't in jail, you'd be sleeping in a gutter! Zuko leaves, slamming the door behind him as Iroh's head drops slightly and he closes his eyes.
Snickers. You're so beautiful when you hate the world.
I don't hate you too. They kiss, but are interrupted by Azula.
Can't you see we're busy? They kiss again.
Standing angrily. That guard told you.
Sits back down. Okay, you caught me. What is it that you want, Azula?
Sliding food into Iroh's cell as Iroh keeps his back to him. I brought you some komodo chicken. I know you don't care for it, but I figure it beats prison food. I admit it, I have everything I always wanted, but it's not as all how I thought it would be. The truth is, I need your advice. Grips the bars. I think the Avatar is still alive, I know he's out there, I'm losing my mind. Iroh does not respond. Desperately. Please, Uncle, I'm so confused I need your help. Iroh still has nothing to say to him. Angrily. Forget it, I'll solve it myself! Waste away in here for all I care! He glances back before leaving, and a tear slides down Iroh's face.
You're sure you weren't followed? I've heard about you. They say you're good at what you do, and even better at keeping secrets. The Avatar is alive. I want you to find him, and end him.
Sarcastically. I'll try to contain my joy. Walks outside, slams door shut.
Shows Iroh the flyer. The Avatar is here in Ba Sing Se and he's lost his bison.
Turns to Iroh. Good things that are happening for you! Have you ever thought that I want more from life than a nice apartment and a job serving tea?
I want my destiny.
Out of my way, skinny!
If you don't want to end up like him, you'll do what I say.
Expecting someone else?
You're mine now.
Uncle?
Sighs and takes off the mask. What are you doing here?
First I have to get it out of here.
I would have figured something out!
I know my own destiny, Uncle!
Stop it, Uncle! I have to do this!
I'm just going to Mai's house. It's not far.
Tell me, if you could have anything you want right now, what would it be?
You know, being a prince and all, I might just be able to make that happen.
To the servants. Do you think you could find a fresh fruit tart for the lady, with rose petals on top?
Sitting up, followed by Mai. War meeting? What are you talking about?
I guess I wasn't invited.
So I guess there's a big war meeting coming up, huh? And apparently I'm not welcome there.
Oh, yeah?! I guess that's why no one bothered to tell me about it!
Well, were you invited?
And I'm the prince!
Forget it! I'm not going!
I don't.
Sighs. I know.
What?
So, my dad wants me at the meeting?
When I got to the meeting, everyone welcomed me. My father had saved me a seat. He wanted me next to him. I was literally at his right hand.
During the meeting, I was the perfect prince. The son my father wanted. Looks down, eyes closed. But I wasn't me.
Don't listen to that jerk.
Cut to Zuko sitting on a komodo rhino from behind Katara as he makes a heart-shaped flame above him. My heart burns for you!
Yelling disappointed. Nooo!
Cut to the other two holding Zuko as he cries. I did not see that coming.
Look around. We're not tourists, we're refugees. Sips food and spits it out. Ugh! I'm sick of eating rotten food, sleeping in the dirt. I'm tired of living like this!
Hello.
Tosses the bowl of rotten food into the water. I'm in.
I've realized lately that being on your own isn't always the best path.
Removes face covering to reveal his face covered in cuts. I'm working on it, Uncle. Puts covering back in place.
I don't need your wisdom right now, Uncle.
Uncle, you don't have to say it.
Faces his uncle, a softer expression on his face. I know, Uncle. We'll meet again. Iroh hugs him. After I have the Avatar. He turns away and gets on the boat.
I will. Lowers the boat, suspended by ropes, down the side of the ship into the water.
I'll be fine!
Peering down into the hole. Where are they going? Cuts to a shot of the hole, his face reflected in the water. They're coming up for air somewhere.
To the barking turtle seals. Be quiet!
Sarcastically. Well, aren't you a big girl now.
Determined. Yes. Hand him over and I won't have to hurt you.
Rising. I see you've learned a new trick, but I didn't come this far to lose to you.
You little peasant. You've found a master, haven't you?
You rise with the moon ... I rise with the sun.
Shelter. Drags Aang into the cave and ties him up.
I finally have you, but I can't get you home because of this blizzard. Stands up and looks outside the cave. There's always something. Not that you would understand. You're like my sister. Everything always came easy to her. She's a firebending prodigy, and everyone adores her. My father says she was born lucky. He says I was lucky to be born. I don't need luck, though. I don't want it. I've always had to struggle and fight and that's made me strong. It's made me who I am.
Guess we'll be here awhile.
Welcome back.
Zuko pulls Aang up by his collar as seen from behind Aang. That won't be enough to escape.
Throwing the tied-up Aang aside who yelps. Here for a rematch?
Angrily. You tried to have me killed! Zuko attacks Zhao.
I had no choice. Zuko continues his attacks, but they are blocked by Zhao.
Take my hand!
I'm tired.
Uncle, I want the repairs made as quickly as possible. I don't want to stay too long and risk losing his trail.
Turns around sharply to face Iroh, as he slightly backs off. Don't mention his name on these docks! Makes some wide arm movements. Once word gets out that he's alive, every firebender will be out looking for him, and I don't want anyone getting in the way!
With dislike in his voice. Captain Zhao.
Yes. He holds up one finger, while Iroh stares disinterested in front of him. You wouldn't believe what happened. He glances at his uncle, and angrily commands him as he gestures at Zhao. Uncle! Tell Commander Zhao what happened.
Looks at his uncle uncomfortably. Yes! Right into ... an Earth Kingdom ship!
He averts his gaze and begins to walk away. Sorry, but we have to go.
Close-up. Angrily. If my father thinks the rest of the world will follow him willingly, then he is a fool!
Aggressively. We haven't found him yet.
Faces Zhao and responds very clearly. No. Stares back in front of him. Nothing.
I haven't found Looks up at Zhao and his tone becomes slightly more aggressive. anything. Close-up, as he continues on a softer tone, slightly mockingly. It's like you said. The Avatar probably died a long time ago. Gets up. Come on, Uncle, we're going.
Angrily. I underestimated him once, but it will not happen again!
Alarmed. Commander Zhao, Closer shot of Zuko. I've been hunting the Avatar for two years and I -
Angrily. Why? Are you worried I'm going to try and stop you?
Angrily gets up. Enraged. Don't underestimate me, Zhao! I will capture the Avatar before you!
Angrily. You're wrong! Once I deliver the Avatar to my father, he will welcome me home with honor, and restore my rightful place on the throne!
Cut to Zuko. That's not true.
Furiously. Maybe you'd like one to match!
An Agni Kai. At sunset.
Darkly. I will never forget.
Close-up of Zuko's determined face. I refuse to let him win.
Anger clearly audible in his voice. Next time you get in my way, I promise, I won't hold back.
Softly. Did you really mean that, Uncle?
As he runs and pushes her out of harm's way. Watch out!
Calmly. Keeping rocks from crushing you.
I'll take that as a thank you. Rises.
Go ahead! I'll hold them off. I think this is a family visit. Runs off.
What are you doing here?
She's ... not gonna make it ... Azula uses her firebending to propel herself toward the wall, stopping her fall with her hair pin and saving herself. Of course she did.
Jokingly. If you really want it to feel like old times, I could, uh ... chase you around a while and try to capture you. He smiles and the rest of the group laughs, except for Katara.
Smiling. I'm touched. Stops smiling. I don't deserve this.
I wish I knew. Follows her.
This isn't fair! Everyone else seems to trust me now! What is it with you?
Closes eyes in resentment. What can I do to make it up to you?
Sorry, do you need to talk to Sokka, too?
Your sister. She hates me! And I don't know why, but I do care what she thinks of me.
Interrupting him. Stop. Okay, listen. I know this may seem out of nowhere, but I want you to tell me what happened to your mother.
Katara mentioned it before when we were imprisoned together in Ba Sing Se, and again just now when she was yelling at me. I think somehow she's connected her anger at that to her anger at me.
Wait. Can you remember any details about the soldiers who raided your village? Like what the lead ship looked like?
The symbol of the Southern Raiders. Thanks, Sokka.
I waited out here all night.
I know who killed your mother, She abruptly stops. and I'm going to help you find him.
Sokka told me the story of what happened. I know who did it and I know how to find him.
She needs this, Aang. This is about getting closure and justice.
That's cute, but this isn't air temple preschool. It's the real world.
That's the same as doing nothing!
Sarcastically. Okay, we'll be sure to do that, guru goody-goody. Climbs aboard Appa.
We need to find the Fire Navy communication tower. All the navy's movements are coordinated by messenger hawk. And every tower has to be up to date on where everyone is deployed.
Voice-over. Not exactly. We need to be stealthy and make sure no one spots us, Cuts to shot of the communication tower, the camera panning downward. otherwise they'll warn the Southern Raiders long before we reach them.
Okay, Southern Raiders. Opens a scroll. Bam. Points to location on map; off-camera. On patrol near Whaletail Island.
You should get some rest. We'll be there in a few hours. You'll need all your strength.
Your mother was a brave woman.
There! Katara looks up. See those sea raven flags? Tosses the telescope to Katara. It's the Southern Raiders.
This is it, Katara. Are you ready to face him?
You don't remember her? You will soon, trust me.
Think back. Think back to your last raid on the Southern Water Tribe.
Bending down closer to the commander. Don't lie! You look her in the eye and you tell me you don't remember what you did.
What? What do you mean he's not? He's the leader of the Southern Raiders! He has to be the guy!
If you're not the man we're looking for, who is?
We weren't behind the bush. Cut to a side view of the confrontation as Zuko takes a step forward to threaten Yon Rha. And I wouldn't try firebending again!
You were right about what Katara needed. Violence wasn't the answer.
Then I have a question for you. Turns to look at him. What are you gonna do when you face my father?
More ferocious! Imagine striking through your opponent's heart!
Now let me hear you roar like a tigerdillo! Aang gives a light roar as fire bursts come out of his hands and mouth; cuts to a front scene of his embarrassed grin. That sounded pathetic! I said roar!
Zuko's hand comes into screen and grabs Aang by the shirt of his robes. Hey! Aang keeps trying to run off, but it is useless. Your lesson's not over yet! Get back here! Holds Aang up.
Lets Aang go. Fine! Aang happily runs off and takes a watermelon. If you want to lounge around like a bunch of snail sloths all day, then go ahead! Walks away.
Teaching you a lesson!
Go ahead and do it!
What's wrong with me? What's wrong with all of you? How can you sit around having beach parties when Sozin's Comet is only three days away? Everybody looks at Zuko. Why are you all looking at me like I'm crazy?
Shocked. After?
So, you all knew Aang was going to wait?
You're wrong. Turns away from them. It's about to get worse than you can even imagine. Flashes back to one day before the Day of Black Sun. Servants help Zuko get dressed on his way to a meeting. Once done, they stay behind and bow to him as he walks on. Voice-over. The day before the eclipse, my father asked me to attend an important war meeting. It was what I dreamed about for so many years. My father had finally accepted me back.
The people of the Earth Kingdom are proud and strong. They can endure anything, as long as they have hope.
Well, that's not exactly what I-
Voice-over. I wanted to speak out against this horrifying plan, but I'm ashamed to say I didn't. Fade to the present. My whole life, I struggled to gain my father's love and acceptance, but once I had it, I realized I'd lost myself getting there. I'd forgotten who I was.
Stands up from his rock seat and walks to Aang. I know you're scared, and I know you're not ready to save the world, but if you don't defeat the Fire Lord before the comet comes, there won't be a world to save anymore.
I didn't think I had to. I assumed you were still going to fight him before the comet. No one told me you decided to wait.
There's one technique you need to know before facing my father - how to redirect lightning. Aang smiles. If you let the energy in your own body flow, the lightning will follow it. Uses his fingers to show how the energy should flow through the body. You turn your opponents' energy against them.
Exactly. My uncle invented this technique himself by studying waterbenders.
Once, against my father.
Stops practicing the lightning redirection form. Exhilarating ... Flashes back to the moment for a few seconds. but terrifying. You feel so powerful holding that much energy in your body, but you know if you make the wrong move, it's over.
You'll have to take the Fire Lord's life before he takes yours.
What are you waiting for? Take him out!
That's not me. It's my father.
Well, that sweet little kid grew up to be a monster, and the worst father in the history of fathers.
You're going to defend him?
Like what?
Sarcastically. Yeah, then you can show him his baby pictures, and all those happy memories will make him good again. Suki and Sokka laugh in the background.
Bluntly. No!
Puts a hand on Katara's shoulder to stop her. Let him go. He needs time to sort it out by himself.
Aang? Aang!
Walks onto the porch with Toph. Aang's not in the house. Let's check the beach. Turns his head toward the beach.
But if he was, wouldn't his body still be here?
Uh-huh.
Sighs and stops walking. Look, I know you had a really rough childhood, but we should really focus on finding Aang. Continues walking.
No. It's like he just ... disappeared.
Get out of the bison's mouth, Sokka. We have a real problem here. Aang is nowhere to be found and the comet is only two days away.
Stands up. I don't know. They keep staring. Why are you all looking at me?
Just trust me.
Pointing. June.
The shirshu. It's the only animal that can track Aang's scent anywhere in the world. It's the one shot we have of finding him.
Yup. Walks forward. Back in the good old days.
Frontal view of Katara and Zuko. He's my uncle. And he's not here.
Speaking at the same time. She's not my girlfriend!
Frontal view of June with Zuko and Suki behind. I need your help finding the Avatar.
Angrily; leans closer, while clenching his fists. Does the end of the world sound like more fun?
Frontal view. Well, what does that mean?
To June. Wait. I have another idea. Frontal view. There's only one other person in this world who can help us face the Fire Lord. I'll be right back with a smell sample.
Hey! Wait up!
We're going to Ba Sing Se?
It's been a long day. Aerial view. Camera zooms out. Let's camp and start our search again at dawn.
Frontal view. The Order of the White Lotus.
Nonchalantly. Nah.
Side-view of Jeong Jeong, Piandao, and Pakku. As Zuko speaks, Jeong Jeong and Pakku walk off and Appa stops behind Zuko and Piandao. Where ... where is he?
Frontal view. No, I'm not okay. My uncle hates me, I know it. Katara sits down next to him. He loved and supported me in every way he could, and I still turned against him. How can I even face him?
More sorry than I've been about anything in my entire life.
Uncle?
Cut to view of Iroh from behind. Uncle, Cut to view of Zuko over Iroh's shoulder. I know you must have mixed feelings about seeing me. Cut briefly to view of Iroh from behind before back to a frontal view of Zuko. But I want you to know, Starts to cry. I am so, so, sorry, Uncle. I am so sorry and ashamed of what I did. I don't know how I can ever make it up to you. But I'll- He is cut off. Cut to side-view as Iroh pulls him into a hug, while starting to cry as well. Close-up of Iroh who starts to smile. Close-up of Zuko who becomes shocked and confused. How can you forgive me so easily? I thought you would be furious with me.
Side-view of the two. I did lose my way.
It wasn't that hard, Uncle. You have a pretty strong scent.
Voice-over. Uncle, you're the only person other than the Avatar who can Side-view of Iroh with Zuko sat next to him. Toph sits to Zuko's right and Katara has her back to the camera opposite Toph. possibly defeat the Father Lord.
Angrily. That's what I just said!
We need you to come with us!
Aerial view of the group. You can beat him! Turns to the others. And we'll be there to help.
Close-up of Zuko from over Iroh's shoulder. And then ... then you would come and take your rightful place on the throne?
Zuko briefly looks away. Unquestionable honor? But I've made so many mistakes.
Zuko looks away. I'll try, Uncle.
I can handle Azula.
Extreme close-up. You're right. Katara, Frontal view of Katara over Zuko's shoulder. how would you like to help me put Azula in her place?
To Iroh. So if I'm going to be Fire Lord after the war is over, Side-view of Zuko. what are you going to do?
It's not her I'm worried about. I'm worried about Aang. What if he doesn't have the guts to take out my father? What if he loses?
Sorry, but you're not gonna become Fire Lord today. Jumps off Appa. I am.
Seriously. You're on.
I know. But I can take her this time.
There's something off about her; I can't explain it but she's slipping. And this way, no one else has to get hurt.
Getting in his stance. No you're not.
Angrily and somewhat mockingly. No lightning today? What's the matter? Quickly assuming his lightning redirection stance. Afraid I'll redirect it?
In slow motion as he comes in front of Katara. No!
Thank you, Katara.
Mai! You're okay! They let you out of prison?
So does this mean you don't hate me anymore?
I can't believe a year ago my purpose in life was hunting you down. And now ...
Yeah, we are friends.
Puts a hand on Aang's shoulder. And it's gonna be even more different... when we build it together. They hug warmly and go outside.
Please. The real hero is the Avatar. Aang walks next to Zuko. Crowd cheers again. Aang turns his head slightly. Cut to side-view of Katara. The camera rotates as she smiles up at Aang proudly. Cut to overhead view of Aang and Zuko, their backs to the camera, looking out at the crowd. Today this war is finally over! Cut briefly to Haru, Tyro, Mechanist and Teo as the crowd cheers. Cut to front view of Zuko. I promised my uncle that I would restore the honor of the Fire Nation. And I will. Panning front view of Zuko and Aang, as seen from the crowd's perspective. The road ahead of us is challenging. A hundred years of fighting has left the world scarred and divided. Cut to side shot of Aang, rotating around, as he turns to see Zuko smile at him, before turning back to the crowd. But with the Avatar's help, we can get it back on the right path and begin a new era of love and peace.
You should count yourself lucky that the Avatar spared your life.
Banishing me was the best thing you could have done for my life. It put me on the right path. Perhaps your time in here could do the same for you.
Because you're going to tell me something. Bends closer to Ozai; gravely. Where is my mother?
At least you don't look like a boar-q-pine! My hair is not that spiky!
You're out of your mind, Uncle. Walking up to Iroh. The weather's perfect. There's not a cloud in sight.
Taking a few steps in Iroh's direction, pointing briefly northward. We know the Avatar is traveling northward, so we will do the same.
Cut to his face as he advances on his uncle angrily. The safety of the crew doesn't matter!
Finding the Avatar is far more important than any individual's safety.
Whirling around and walking toward Jee; angry. Lieutenant! You'd better learn some respect Jabs two fingers into Jee's chest. – or I will teach it to you. Begins to walk away from Jee, who follows Zuko with his eyes, continuing his taunting after a short pause.
I don't need your help keeping order on my ship.
Where were we hit?
The helmsman!
The Avatar!
Let him go. We need to get this ship to safety.
Uncle, I'm sorry.
Angrily, with his arms folded. This is humiliating! We're royalty! These people should be giving us whatever we want.
Annoyed. We're not performers.
Uncle, we have a problem. Iroh descends from the ladder. One of the customers is on to us. Don't look now but there is a girl over there at the corner table. Cut to a shot of a girl sitting in the corner of the shop, drinking tea. She knows we're Fire Nation. Iroh looks at the girl, but is quickly pulled back by Zuko. Didn't I say don't look?!
Bewildered. What?
Turning back. My name's Lee. My uncle and I just moved here.
He stops Jin from ruffling his hair. It took my uncle ten minutes to do my hair.
It's okay.
Nothing.
He yells in an assertive tone, pounding the table. She is not my girlfriend!
You have ... quite an appetite for a girl. He fiddles his thumbs awkwardly.
Umm ... well, we've been traveling around for a long time.
We were ... uh, part of this traveling circus.
Zuko folds his arms and looks annoyed. Yes, I juggled.
I haven't practiced for a while. Wipes the pieces of the objects from his hair.
Close your eyes, and don't peek.
Okay, now you can look.
I've brought you something. Jin becomes surprised. It's a coupon for a free cup of tea.
He takes a few steps back. Don't thank me – it was my uncle's idea. He thinks you're our most valuable customer.
Stops for a moment. It's complicated. I have to go. He walks off, leaving a disappointed Jin.
It was nice.
View from behind as he turns to his soldiers. I want the Avatar. Improve your firebending Frontal view of soldiers. or you're swimming home in your armor. Close-up. Again!
I got your message. Cut close-up on the messenger hawk as Zuko passes it to the soldier. The camera pans up to the hawk as it squawks. Side-view of Zuko. Bring the Avatar's playmate to me.
Frontal view. Is the Avatar with her?
Frontal view from behind Kya. Search the island! He's probably hiding under a rock! Aang suddenly flies in between everyone and the shot pauses to show him smiling. Ah! Side-view of Zuko as Aang flies up and around the compound. Zuko points to him. Get him!
Frontal view. You want your friends? Come and get them.
Out of my way!
Close-up. Come on! Fight back!
Give up now and I'll make sure my father goes easy on you. Frontal view of Aang. You have nowhere left to go.
Calmly. The only reason you should be interrupting me, is if you have news about the Avatar.
Cut to shot of the prince sitting motionless, still assuming his meditative stance, his back to the camera. Calmly. Uncle, you taught me that keeping a level head is a sign of a great leader. Now, whatever you have to say, I'm sure I can take it.
Enraged. What!?
He snatches the scroll from Iroh's hand. Give me the map! He unrolls it, scanning over the parchment.
Desperately. How am I going to find him, Uncle? Cut to a shot of the map in Zuko's hand, several locations marked down with zigzagged lines connecting each point; Voice-over. He is clearly a master of evasive maneuvering.
Yells on a demanding tone. The Avatar's on Kyoshi Island? Cut to a frontal shot of Iroh as Zuko addresses him while leaving the room. Iroh looks at Zuko as he walks away. Uncle, ready the rhinos. He's not getting away from me this time.
Turns around and snatches the plate off the table. Aggressively. I was going to save it for later!
I want the Avatar alive.
Frog view close-up. Come out, Avatar! Camera pans from left to right, revealing how several villagers are hiding in the nearby houses. You can't hide from me forever! Camera focuses on the four riders while moving away from them over the main street, showing that there is not any movement in the village. Side-view of Zuko. Find him.
Nice try, Avatar! But these little girls can't save you.
Finally!
Back to the ship! Don't lose sight of them!
For the last time, I'm not playing the tsungi horn!
Cut to a shocked Zuko. What?! Turns around to face Zhao.
Uncle, is that true?
I'm not. They're antiques. Just decorative.
Bitterly. Good riddance to those traitors.
Hearing the noise. Uncle? Uncle, is that you? Walks around the ship.
You didn't have to do this.
Thank you, Uncle.
Close-up of his face; he glares at the tower. Someone's changing our course.
Storming in, yelling. What is the meaning of this mutiny? No one told you to change course! Shows Iroh and the rest of the crew playing Pai Sho behind them.
Hopefully. Is it something to do with the Avatar?
Confused. Lotus tile?
In disbelief. You've changed our course for a stupid lotus tile?
It's good to know this trip was a complete waste of time for everyone!
You bought a tsungi horn?
Turning. This monk, did he have an arrow on his head? Iroh turns around, making a face similar to the monkey's.
We don't need to stop. They stole a waterbending scroll, right?
Then they'll be on the water.
He glares at her as she looks frightfully at him. I'll save you from the pirates.
Tell me where he is and I won't hurt you or your brother.
Try to understand. I need to capture him to restore something I've lost, my honor. Katara jerks her head away from Zuko. Perhaps in exchange I can restore something you've lost. He holds her mother's necklace up to her neck.
I didn't steal it, if that's what you're wondering. Tell me where he is. Points at Katara.
I wonder how much this is worth ... The pirates gasp as he takes it out and holds it over a fire in his hand. A lot, apparently. Now you help me find what I want, you'll get this back, and everyone goes home happy. Search the woods for the boy and meet back here!
Nice work.
To the pirate captain. Give me the boy.
Don't listen to him, he's trying to turn us against each other!
Shut your mouth, you Water Tribe peasant!
You'll regret breaking a deal with me. He and two of his soldiers send a blast of fire at the pirates. The pirates jump back and Oh runs out, throwing smoke bombs and jumping into the cloud as the fight ensues. Some of the soldiers run out to Sokka and Aang, who are struggling with their ropes, but are stopped by several pirates. Momo runs down the tree and frees Katara.
We have no time for your proverbs, Uncle!
Angrily. Hey! That's my boat! Goes chasing after the hijacked boat.
Off camera. C'mon, Uncle! Iroh runs after Zuko.
My boat!
The only view I'm interested in seeing is the Avatar in chains.
Determined. First we'll check each of the air temples, then we'll scour the world, searching even the most remote locations until we find him.
What else would I expect to hear from the laziest man in the Fire Nation? Iroh sighs. The only way to regain my honor is to find the Avatar, so I will.
Hello ... Raises an arm in greeting. Zuko here, but I guess Rubs his hand against the back of his head nervously. you probably already know me, sort of. Uhhh ... so, the thing is I have a lot of firebending experience, and I'm Places an arm on his chest with pride. considered to be pretty good at it. He continues smiling. Well, you've seen me, you know, when I was attacking you. His eyes widen. Uhhh ... yeah, I guess Places his fingers against his forehead in embarrassment. I should apologize for that. But anyway, Waves an arm to the side dismissively. I'm good now. Clenches both fists and places one on his chest while the other arm is raised. I mean, I thought I was good before, but I realize I was bad, He gets visibly uncomfortable and drops his arms into a slouch. but anyway, I think it's time I joined your group and taught Straightens up with a sincere expression on his face. the Avatar firebending. A badgerfrog croaks at him. Angrily. Well, what's your answer? The badgerfrog hops on his head before hopping away. Yeah ... that's what I'd say, too. How am I supposed to convince these people that I'm on their side? What would Uncle do? Imitating Iroh. Zuko, you have to look within yourself to save yourself from your other self. Only then will your true self, reveal itself. Normal voice. Even when I'm talking for him I can't figure out what he means. What would Azula do? Imitating Azula. Listen, Avatar, I can join your group, or I can do something unspeakably horrible to you and your friends. Your choice. Normal voice. Stops and sits down. I guess I'm just not that good at impersonations.
Cut to a close up of Zuko's face. Hello ... Raises his arm up in greeting and waves. Zuko here.
Hey, I heard you guys flying around down there, so, I just thought I'd wait for you here. Appa growls at him and licks him twice. Cut to a surprised Momo and Aang as he lowers his staff slightly. I know you must be surprised to see me here.
Right. Well, uhhh ... anyway ... what I wanted to tell you about is that I've changed, and I, uhhh, I'm good now, and well I think I should join your group, oh, and I can teach firebending to you. The gang expresses shock. See, I, uhhh ...
I've done some good things! I mean, I could have stolen your bison in Ba Sing Se, but I set him free. That's something! Appa licks him again, much to his surprise.
I can understand why you wouldn't trust me, and I know I've made some mistakes in the past.
Look, I admit I've some awful things. I was wrong to try to capture you, and I'm sorry that I attacked the Water Tribe. And I never should have sent that Fire Nation assassin after you. Toph and Sokka's eyes widen with shock. I'm going to try and stop-
Well, that's not his name, but-
Angrily. He's not my friend!
To Aang. Why aren't you saying anything? You once said you thought we could be friends. You know I have good in me.
I'm trying to explain that I'm not that person anymore!
If you won't accept me as a friend, then maybe you'll take me as a prisoner. Zuko kneels down, bends his head, and raises his arms in surrender.
Uggh! I can't believe how stupid I am! I mean, what was I thinking? Telling them I sent an assassin after them? Why didn't I just say Azula did that? They would have believed that! Stupid! A badgerfrog croaks at him. Uggh!
Who's there? Stay back! Whips fire.
I'm sorry, it was a mistake! Comes toward her, but she begins to crawl away.
Let me help you! Dodges another rock. I'm sorry! Tries to grab her.
I didn't know it was you! Uggh, come back! Toph leaves. Uggh! Why am I so bad at being good?
Stop! Team Avatar turns their head up to the sound. I don't want you hunting the Avatar anymore! Cut to a quick close up of Aang looking up with shock as he is helping Sokka carry Toph. Cut back to Zuko as he stands in front of Combustion Man, arms spread out to block him. The mission is off. I'm ordering you to stop.
If you keep attacking, I won't pay you! Attempts to firebend at him, but Combustion Man grabs him. All right, I'll pay you double to stop!
Listen, I know I didn't explain myself very well yesterday, I've been through a lot in the last few years, and it's been hard. But I'm realizing that I had to go through all those things to learn the truth. I thought I had lost my honor, and that somehow my father could return it to me. But I know now that no one can give you your honor. It's something you earn for yourself, by choosing to do what's right. All I want to do now is play my part in ending this war, and I know my destiny is to help you restore balance to the world. To Toph. I'm sorry for what I did to you. Bows to her. It was an accident. Fire can be dangerous and wild, so as a firebender, I need to be more careful and control my bending, so I don't hurt people unintentionally.
Bows. Thank you. I'm so happy you've accepted me into your group.
Excitedly approaching the group. I won't let you down! I promise!
If I have to, I will spend every day of the rest of my life hunting the Avatar. I know it's my destiny to capture him.
Uncle! It's time to leave! Where are you? Uncle Iroh!
Uncle? We need to move on. We're closing in on the Avatar's trail and I don't want to lose him.
My troubles cannot be soaked away. It's time to go!
Enough! We need to leave now. Get out of the water!
Shielding his eyes. On second thought, why don't you take another few minutes? But be back at the ship in a half-hour or I'm leaving without you!
Uncle! Uncle, where are you?
Something's not right here. That pile of rocks.
Land doesn't slide uphill. Those rocks didn't move naturally. Stands up straight. My Uncle's been captured by earthbenders!
Sniffs and gets a disgusted look. Yeah, that's Uncle Iroh. He re-mounts his rhino.
The Avatar! He turns slightly, but looks back at the footprints.
You taught me well.
Now would you please put on some clothes?
The Senlin Village leader gasps. Having trouble sleeping? Pushes the man back through the door, knocking him down. Frontal shot as he approaches him. Seen the Avatar lately?
I have no choice, Uncle.
Breaks away from telescope to talk to his uncle. I'm chasing the Avatar! My father will understand why I am returning home!
Looks back into his telescope. Dark scope view reveals Appa mid-flight. There they are. Helmsman! Full steam ahead!
Lights the stinking ball with a fire punch. On my mark! Fire!
Close-up. Eyes widening. A blockade.
He's not turning around!
Lowers his head, closes his eyes, and clenches his hands into fists. Sorrowfully. I'm sorry, Uncle. Raises his head, opens his eyes, and thrusts his right hand forward commandingly. Run the blockade!
Spins away from the man, facing the blockade. Do not stop this ship.
Confidently. We can make it!
Close-up. Tightens knuckles on ship's railing. Smoke billows behind his ship. What's he up to, Uncle? Why didn't Commander Zhao arrest me?
Close-up. If Zhao wants to follow a trail of smoke, then that's exactly what I'll let him do.
Uncle, keep heading north. Zhao will follow the smoke trail, while I use it as a cover.
Steps out from behind column. Grips Aang from behind, pinning Aang's arms behind him. The Avatar's coming with me! The captured sages use their captors' surprise to reclaim the upper hand, pinning their captors down. Momo flies off with the Great Fire Sage's hat. Close the doors! Quickly!
He and four sages launch fire blasts into the door's locks. Nothing happens. Frustrated. Why isn't it working, it's sealed shut?
Firmly to Shyu, who is kneeling before him with his hands behind his back. Why did you help the Avatar?
Strains against his captor, snaps at Zhao. You're too late, Zhao! The Avatar's inside and the doors are sealed.
Could I get some water, a bag of feed and something hot to eat? Zuko holds out his hand. In it are two coins.
No.
Turns to face them. No.
Turns around. Maybe a chicken flew over.
No kidding.
Nervously. I'm ... uh ...
I can't. I should be moving on. The wife frowns and casts a glance at her husband.
Shaking his head. Mm-mm.
Lowers his hammer. Far away.
You're holding them wrong.
Keep in mind, these are dual swords. Two halves of a single weapon. Don't think of them as separate, 'cause they're not. They're just two different parts of the same whole.
Trouble.
No. I need to move on.
Here. I want you to have this. Read the inscription.
The other one.
Azula always lies.
Stands up dramatically. I'll get your son back.
Let the kid go.
It doesn't matter who I am. But I know who you are. You're not soldiers; you're bullies. Freeloaders, abusing your power. Mostly over women and kids. You don't want Lee in your army – you're sick cowards messing with a family who's already lost one son to the war.
My name is Zuko. Son of Ursa and Fire Lord Ozai. Prince of the Fire Nation, and heir to the throne.
Zuko kneels down in front of Sela, with Lee peeking around his mother's back, offering the knife. It's yours. You should have it.
